 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 1

Section        Change
2-1-102        Updated section.

               Applicability to Other Rules in Regulation 2le Requirements: The requirements
               provisions of this Rule, including the definitions, shall apply to the other Rules 2, 3, and 6 of
               this Regulation, where applicable unless superseded by specific requirements in Rules 2, 3,
               and 6provisions in those other Rules.
2-1-103        Adding PM2.5,to the list of pollutants regulated.

              Exemption, Source not Subject to any District Rule: Any source that is not already
              exempt from the requirements of Section 2-1-301 and 302 as set forth in Sections 2-1-105 to
              2-1-128, is exempt from Section 2-1-301 and 302 if the source meets all of the following
              criteria:
                        103.1 The source is not in a source category subject to any of the provisions of
                                             (1)               (2)
                               Regulation 6 , Regulation 8 excluding Rules 1 through 4, or Regulations 9
                               through 12; and
                        103.2 The source is not subject to any of the provisions of Sections 2-1-316
                               through 319; and
                        103.3 Actual emissions of precursor organic compounds (POC), non-precursor
                               organic compounds (NPOC), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO 2),
                               PM2.5, PM10 and carbon monoxide (CO) from the source are each (i) less
                               than 10 pounds per highest day, or (ii) if. A source also satisfies this criterion
                               if actual emissions of each pollutant are greater than 10 pounds perlb/highest
                               day, but total emissions are less than 150 pounds per year, per pollutant,
                               and.
                               Note 1: Typically, any source may be subject to Regulation 6, Particulate
                               Matter and Visible Emissions. For the purposes of this section, Regulation 6
                               applicability shall be limited to the following types of sources that emit PM2.5,
                               and PM10: combustion source; material handling/processing; sand, gravel or
                               rock processing; cement, concrete and asphaltic concrete production; tub
                               grinder; or similar PM2.5, and PM10-emitting source, as deemed by the APCO.
                               Note 2: If an exemption in a Regulation 8 Rule indicates that the source is
                               subject to Regulation 8, Rules 1 through 4, then the source must comply with
                               all applicable provisions of Regulation 8, Rules 1 through 4, to qualify for this
                               exemption.
                        103.4 The source is not an ozone generator (a piece of equipment designed to
                               generate ozone) emitting 1 lb/day or more of ozone.
                               Note 1: Typically, any source may be subject to Regulation 6, Particulate
                               Matter and Visible Emissions. For the purposes of this section, Regulation 6
                               applicability shall be limited to the following types of sources that emit PM 2.5
                               and PM10: combustion source; material handling/processing; sand, gravel or
                               rock processing; cement, concrete and asphaltic concrete production; tub
                               grinder; or similar PM2.5 and PM10-emitting sources, as deemed by the
                               APCO.
                               Note 2: If an exemption in a Regulation 8 Rule indicates that the source is
                               subject to Regulation 8, Rules 1 through 4, then the source must comply with
                               all applicable provisions of Regulation 8, Rules 1 through 4, to qualify for this
                               exemption.
2-1-105       Adds clarification to section. Note that portable, seasonal-use, internal combustion engines
              are included because they are covered in the definition of portable (2-1-220).

              Exemption, Registered Statewide Portable Equipment: The following pPortable
              equipment is exempt from the requirements of Sections 2-1-301 and 302, provided that the
              equipment complies with all applicable requirements of the Statewide Portable Equipment
              Registration Program (California Code of Regulations Title 13, Division 3, Chapter 3, Article
              5). If the equipment ceases to qualify for this exemption for any reason (for example, if it
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 2

Section        Change
               remains at any fixed location for more than twelve months or otherwise ceases to be portable
               as defined in Section 2-1-220), the equipment shall be subject to the requirements of
               Regulation 2 as if it were a new source.
                            105.1 Confined abrasive blasting
                            105.2 Portland concrete batch plants
                            105.3 Spark ignition or diesel fired internal combustion engines used in
                                     conjunction with the following types of operations:
                                     3.1 Well drilling service or workover rigs;
                                     3.2 Power generation, excluding cogeneration;
                                     3.3 Pumps;
                                     3.4 Compressors;
                                     3.5 Pile drivers;
                                     3.6 Welding;
                                     3.7 Cranes; and
                                     3.8 Wood chippers
                            105.4 Sand and Gravel screening, rock crushing, pavement crushing and
                                     recycling operations;
                            105.5 Unconfined abrasive blasting.
2-1-106        Adds clarification to section.

               Limited Exemption, Accelerated Permitting Program: Unless subject to any of the
               provisions of Sections 2-1-316 through 319, any new source or modification or alteration of
               an existinged source is exempt from the Authority to Construct requirements of Section 2-1-
               301, if it has received a temporary Permit to Operate provided that the owner or operator
               submits a complete application under the Accelerated Permitting Program set forth in Section
               2-1-302.2. A complete permit application under this program consists of: a completed permit
               application form and source data form(s); payment of applicable fees (the minimum permit
               fee required to install and operate each source); and certification that the source meets all of
               the criteria set forth in Sections 2-1-106.1 through 106.3. Such a source is still subject to the
               Permit to Operate requirements of Section 2-1-302, but will be evaluated under the
               Accelerated Permitting Program, as described in Section 2-1-302.2.
                             106.1 Uncontrolled emissions of POC, NPOC, NOx, SO2, PM10, and CO are
                                      each less than 10 pounds per highest day; or the source is pre-certified
                                      per Section 2-1-415; and
                             106.2 Emissions of toxic compounds do not exceed the trigger levels identified
                                      in Table 2-5-1 of Regulation 2, Rule 5; and
                             106.3 The source is not subject to the public notice requirements of Section 2-
                                      1-412.
               In addition to the above, the replacement of any abatement device is exempt from the Authority to Constru
               abatement device being replaced. In addition to the above, any alteration of a source is
               exempt from the Authority to Construct requirements of Section 2-1-301 and will be evaluated
               under the Accelerated Permitting Program in Section 2-1-302.2, provided that the owner or
               operator certifies for all pollutants that the alteration does not result in an increase in
               emissions
2-1-113.2.14   This section has been deleted for the following reasons:
               1) The exemption is unclear. It isn’t clear what it applies to because “space heating” isn’t
               defined anywhere. Another thing that is unclear is what is meant by “not subject to
               Regulation 9, Rule 7”. Does this mean that it is completely excluded from the rule, or does it
               mean that it is not subject to an emission limit, but possibly subject to administrative
               requirements (like a low-fuel exemption device)? We could try to clarify these points, but the
               exemption doesn’t seem to apply to enough devices to make it worthwhile and even if it did
               apply to a bunch of devices, the exemption seems hard to justify (see 2 below).
               2) This exemption doesn’t apply to many sources, and possibly it applies to none. Reg 9-7
               generally applies to natural gas / LPG devices down to >2 MM BTU/hr and only excludes one
               kind of device that is related to space heating, and that is a thermal fluid heater:
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 3

Section        Change
                  110.7 Process heaters used to heat thermal fluid for radiant comfort heating.
               Also, because the general combustion exemption in Section 2-1-114.2 exempts every natural
               gas/LPG device <10 MM BTU/hr, the only additional devices that would be covered by 2-1-
               113.2.14 would be a thermal fluid heater using natural gas / LPG and 10 to <20 MM BTU/hr.
               But there doesn’t seem to be any reason to exempt this niche of devices from permits. Our
               10 MM BTU/hr natural gas/LPG exemption is already one of the most generous in the state
               (the larger districts require permits down to 1 or 2 MM BTU/hr). It may be reasonable to
               retain the 10 MM BTU/hr exemption in 2-1-114.2 since we are registering devices >2 to 10
               MM BTU/hr and regulating them in rules like 9-6 and 9-7, but I think we should eliminate any
               niche permit exemptions for combustion devices like 113.2.14 unless we have a clear
               justification for providing the exemption (which doesn’t seem to exist in this case).

                Space heating units that are not subject to Regulation 9, Rule 7, where emissions result
                solely from the combustion of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas (e.g. propane, butane,
                isobutane, propylene, butylenes, and their mixtures) of less than 20 million BTU per hour
                heat input. Incinerators operated in conjunction with such sources are not exempt.
2-1-115        Adding PM2.5,to the list of pollutants regulated.

               Exemption, Particulate Sources at Quarries, Mineral Processing and Biomass
               Facilities: The following potential PM2.5 and PM10 sources are exempt from the requirements
               of sections 2-1-301 and 302, provided that the source does not require permitting pursuant to
               Section 2-1-319.
2-1-115.2      It is possible that some agricultural composting operations could be located at large confined
               animal facilities or could have emissions high enough to trigger a permit under Title V. Also,
               some composting operations have been proposed that use mostly agricultural wastes but
               add a small amount of non agricultural feed stock (like landscape waste or green waste from
               curbside pickup) to their compost operation to balance it. We have been asked how much
               non-agricultural wastes can a site use before it is no longer considered to be an agricultural
               source. Section 2-1-115.2.4 is attempting to address this question. Sites would be deemed
               an agricultural composting operation if the majority of the materials are derived from and
               used for agricultural operations. The 500 tons/yr of non-agricultural throughput is consistent
               with 2-1-115.2.3. The 2500 yd3 compost for non-agricultural use is based on an odor
               enforceability criteria for agricultural compost operations in H&S code 41705(a)(3) that allows
               an incidental amount of compost to be given away or sold for non agricultural-use. If the
               compost operation has only these small incidental amounts of non-agricultural feed stock and
               compost sold for non- agricultural use, then we would consider it an agricultural type source
               that would only require permits if it met the definition in 2-1-239 and had emissions of 50
               tons/yr or higher per 2-1-113.1.2. If the operation does not qualify as an agricultural source,
               then permits are required per 2-1-115.2.3.

               Sources located at biomass recycling, composting, landfill, POTW, or related facilities
               specializing in the operation ofincluding, but not limited to, the following:
                      2.1       Tub grinder powered by a motor with a maximum output rating less than 10
                                horsepower;
                      2.2       Hogger, shredder or similar source powered by a motor with a maximum
                                output rating less than 25 horsepower;
                      2.3       Other biomass processing/handling sources at a facilities with a total
                                throughput less than 500 tons per year.
                      2.4         Composting and other biomass processing/handling sources that primarily
                                process green materials or animal waste products derived from agricultural
                                operations, provided these operations are located at a facility that: processes
                                less than 500 tons per year of material from non-agricultural operations,
                                produces no more than 2500 cubic yards per year of compost for non-
                                agricultural use, and satisfies the emissions limitations in Regulation 2-1-
                                113.1.2.
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 4

Section        Change
2-1-118.9       Clarifies the intent of the wipe cleaning exemptions and how it has always been applied.

               Wipe cleaning at a facility that meets one of the following:
                       9.1    with a net cleanup solvent usage less than 20 gallons per year from all wipe
                               cleaning operations;, or
                       9.2 which emitsemission to the atmosphere of less than 150 lb/pounds per year of
                               uncontrolled VOC from all wipe cleaning operations.
               At a facility with total wipe cleaning emissions greater than 150 lb/yr, wipe cleaning
               operations may be grouped per Section 2-1-401.4.
2-1-119.5      Clarifies the intent of the graphic arts operation exemptions and how it has always been
               applied

               Any graphic arts operation that emits less than 400 pounds of uncontrolled VOC emissions
               per month on a facility-wide basis.
2-1-128.21     The proposed amendments:

                   1) Clarifies exemption should apply to only fugitive changes and not be used with other
                      projects such as new tanks.
                   2) Requires BACT for fugitive components to ensure exemption will not require
                      permitting pursuant to Section 2-1-319.

                Modification, replacement, or addition of fugitive components only (e.g. valves, flanges,
                pumps, compressors, relief valves, process drains) at existing permitted process units at
                petroleum refineries, chemical plants, bulk terminals or bulk plants, provided that the
                cumulative emissions from all additional components installed at a given process unit during
                any consecutive twelve month period do not exceed 10 lb/day, components installed satisfy
                the “typical control technology listed in the BACT/TBACT Workbook, and that the
                components meet applicable requirements of Regulation 8 rules.
2-1-130        New Section to explain intention of notes found in this Regulation.

               Effect of Explanatory Notes: The explanatory notes that are included in italics following
               certain provisions in Regulation 2 are intended to help readers better understand the
               regulatory context of these provisions. They are not intended to be binding as regulatory
               requirements. Where such notes are provided, it is the text of the regulatory provision itself,
               and not the text of the notes, that establishes the binding legal requirements of the provision.
2-1-201        This definition has been deleted. It exists where it is referenced in Regulation 2-2.

               Emission Reduction Credits: An emission reduction, calculated in accordance with
               Regulation 2-2-605, which exceeds the emission reductions required by measures in the Air
               Quality Management Plan or the Clean Air Plan approved by the BAAQMD or required by
               federal, state, or District laws, rules, and regulations. To qualify as an emission reduction
               credit the emission reduction must be in excess of the reductions achieved by the source
               using Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT), and must also be real, permanent,
               quantifiable, and enforceable.
                            201.1 Unless calculated in accordance with the procedures of Regulation 2-2-
                                    605, that portion of an NSR emission cap, which was part of an APCO
                                    approved alternative baseline, shall not qualify as an emission reduction
                                    credit.
                            201.2 All emission reduction credits shall be enforceable by permit conditions
                                    in the authority to construct and permit to operate, except that in the
                                    case of source closures where no permit is required for the source being
                                    shut down, the emission reduction credit shall be enforceable through
                                    appropriate contractual provisions in a legally binding and irrevocable
                                    written agreement which provisions will be made expressly for the
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 5

Section        Change
                                       benefit of the District. The permanence of a closure shall be identified in
                                       a letter from the source and/or in a Banking Certificate.
2-1-202        Clarified definition.

               Complete Application: An application that contains all of the information required under
               Regulation 2-1-402.the following:
                            202.1 Sufficient information for the APCO to determine the emissions from
                                     such new or modified source and to quantify emissions from the
                                     proposed source(s) of offsets or credits.
                            202.2 Any information requested by the APCO in order to determine the air
                                     quality impact of the application.
                            202.3 All applicable fees, as described in Regulation 3.
                            202.4 The information required by Regulation 2-2-414 and 417 provided the
                                     application is subject to the PSD requirements of Regulations 2-2-304,
                                     305, 306, or 308.
                            202.5 CEQA-related information that satisfies the requirements of Section 2-1-
                                     426.
                            202.6 A certification, stating whether the source triggers the requirements of
                                     Section 2-1-412.
                            202.7 A specific designation of any information contained in the application
                                     which is asserted to be a trade secret pursuant to Section 6254.7 of the
                                     Government Code and not a public record. The applicant shall submit
                                     two copies of each page containing trade secret information. One copy
                                     shall be clearly labeled “Trade Secret,” and each trade secret item shall
                                     be clearly marked. The second copy shall be clearly labeled “Public
                                     Copy,” and each trade secret item shall be redacted. The applicant shall
                                     include, for each item which is asserted to be a trade secret, a statement
                                     signed by a responsible representative of the applicant identifying that
                                     portion of Government Code Section 6254.7 (d) upon which the
                                     assertion is based and a brief statement setting forth the basis for this
                                     assertion.
2-1-204        Deletion of definition. It has been moved to Regulation 2-2 (New Source Review) and 2-6
               (Major Facility Review).

               Major Facility: A major facility is any of the following:
                             204.1 Major Facility, MFR (Regulated Air Pollutants): A facility that has the
                                      potential to emit 100 tons per year or more of any regulated air pollutant
                                      except total supsended particulate. For fugitive emissions of regulated air
                                      pollutants, only the fugitive emissions from facility categories listed in 40
                                      CFR 70.2 "Definitions - Major source (2)" shall be included in
                                      determining whether the facility is a major facility. Once any facility is
                                      determined to be a major facility, all fugitive emissions from the facility
                                      shall be included in calculating the facility’s emissions.
                             204.2 Major Facility, MFR (Hazardous Air Pollutants): A facility that has the
                                      potential to emit 10 tons per year or more of a single hazardous air
                                      pollutant, 25 tons per year or more of a combination of hazardous air
                                      pollutants, or such lesser quantity as the EPA Administrator may
                                      establish by rule. All fugitive emissions of hazardous air pollutants are
                                      included in determining a facility's potential to emit. For radionuclides,
                                      the definition of a major facility shall be specified by the EPA
                                      Administrator by rule.
                             204.3 A facility with permit conditions that limit emissions to a level that is
                                      greater than the above thresholds is defined as a major facility.
2-1-205        This definition is no longer necessarily because of the proposed changes made to Regulation
               2-2 and 2-6 the requirements.
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 6

Section        Change

               National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS): Levels of air pollution that have been
               established by the Environmental Protection Agency. All references to NAAQS shall be
               interpreted to include state ambient air quality standards.
2-1-206        This definition is no longer needed because it is not a term referenced generically in this rule.

               Organic Compound: Any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
               carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, ammonium carbonate and methane.
2-1-208        Clarified definition.

               Organic Compound, Precursor (POC): Any organic compound as defined in Regulation 1-
               233 excepting the non-precursor organic compounds, as defined in Section 2-1-207.
2-1-209        This definition has been moved to Regulation 2-2.

               Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT): For sources that are to continue
               operating, RACT is the lowest emission limit that can be achieved by the specific source by
               the application of control technology taking into account technological feasibility and cost-
               effectiveness, and the specific design features or extent of necessary modifications to the
               source. For sources which are or will be shut-down, RACT is the lowest emission limit that
               can be achieved by the application of control technology to similar, but not necessarily
               identical categories of sources, taking into account technological feasibility and cost-
               effectiveness of the application of the control technology to the category of sources only and
               not to the shut-down source.
2-1-213        Clarifying the definition.

               Facility: Any propertysource, building, structure or installation (or any aggregation of
               facilities) located on one or more contiguous or adjacent properties and under common
               ownership or control of the same person that emits or may emit any air pollutant; or any
               aggregation of such sources, buildings, structures or installations that are located within a
               distance of three miles of each other and (i) are in and is considered a single the same major
               industrial grouping (identified by the first two-digits of the applicable code in The Standard
               Industrial Classification Manual) and under common ownership and control or (ii) are related
               sources, as defined in Section 2-2-227, even if such related sources are not withing the same
               major industrial grouping and/or are not under common ownership and control. In addition,
               facilities which include cargo loading or unloading from cargo carriers other than motor
               vehicles shall include the cargo carriers as part of the source which receives or loads the
               cargo. Accordingly, all emissions from such carriers while operating in the District, or within
               California Coastal Waters adjacent to the District, shall be included as part of the source
               emissions.
2-1-214        Due to the proposed amendments of Regulation 2-2 and the renumbering of sections, this
               section is amended to reflect the changes made.

               Federally Enforceable: All limitations and conditions whichthat are enforceable by the
               Administrator of the U. S. EPA, including but not limited to (i) requirements developed
               pursuant to 40 CFR Parts 60 (NSPS), 61 (NESHAPS), 63 (HAP), 70 (State Operating Permit
               Programs) and 72 (Permits Regulation, Acid Rain), (ii) requirements contained in the State
               Implementation Plan (SIP) that are applicable to the District, (iii) any District permit
               requirements established pursuant to 40 CFR 52.21 (PSD) or District regulations approved
               pursuant to 40 CFR Part 51, Subpart I (NSR), (iv) and requirements in any operating permits
               issued under an EPA-approved program that is a part of the SIP and expressly requires
               adherence to any permit issued under such program, including requirements of any District
               permit condition (excluding conditions that are not enforceable by the Administrator of the
               U.S. EPA) and (v) requirements in federal consent decrees that are enforceable by the
               Administrator of the U.S. EPA.
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 7

Section        Change
2-1-216        Deleted definition. It is in Regulation 2-6.

               Major Facility Review (MFR): Plantwide review of sources, emissions and regulatory
               requirements at facilities including, but not limited to, major facilities, phase II acid rain
               facilities, subject solid waste incinerator facilities, and designated facilities, which are
               potentially subject to the permitting requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 6, and Title V of the
               federal Clean Air Act.
2-1-218        Clarified definition and expanded it further to cover all pollutants regulated.

               Regulated Air Pollutant: Except for purposes of major facility review in connection with
               Regulation 2, Rule 6, for which the definition in Section 2-6-222 applies, a regulated air
               pollutant is any air pollutant that is subject to a regulation adopted by or implemented by the
               District.The following air pollutants (as defined in Regulation 1) are regulated:
                            218.1 Nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds;
                            218.2 Any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality standard has been
                                     promulgated;
                            218.3 Any Class I or Class II ozone depleting substance subject to a standard
                                     promulgated under Title VI of the federal Clean Air Act;
                            218.4 Any pollutant that is subject to any standard promulgated under Section
                                     111 of the federal Clean Air Act; and
                            218.5 Any pollutant that is subject to any standard promulgated under Section
                                     112 of the federal Clean Air Act, except that a pollutant that is subject
                                     solely to Section 112(r) is not a regulated air pollutant.
2-1-219        Deleted definition. It is in Regulation 2-6.

               Synthetic Minor Operating Facility: A facility which by imposition of facilitywide federally
               enforceable permit conditions has its potential to emit limited to below the threshold levels for
               a major facility as defined by Sections 204.1 and 204.2 of this rule and in Section 212 of
               Regulation 2, Rule 6, and is not otherwise required to apply for a major facility review permit
               under Regulation 2, Rule 6.
2-1-220        Clarified and amended definition to match that of the state definition for portable.

               Portable Equipment: This definition is provided exclusively for determining applicability of
               Section 2-1-413: Portable Equipment Operated Within the District. “Portable equipment”
               means any emission unit that, by itself or, in or on a piece of equipment, is portable, meaning
               dDesigned to be and capable of being carried or moved from one location to another.
               Indications of portability include, but are not limited to, wheels, skids, carrying handles, dolly,
               trailer, platform or mounting. For purposes of this regulation, dredge engines on a boat or
               barge are portable.A piece of eEquipment is not portable, for purposes of obtaining a portable
               permit under Section 2-1-413, if allany of the following are mettrue:
                              220.1 The equipment is attached to a foundation or if not so attached, will not
                                     remain at the sameany single location for a period in excess of twelve
                                     consecutive months, following the date of initial operation. Any
                                     replacement equipmentemission unit, such as a back up or standby unit,
                                     thatwhich replaces an emission unit the equipment at that location and is
                                     intended to perform the same function as the equipmentunit being
                                     replaced, will be counted toward the residency time of the
                                     equipmentlimitation. In that case, the cumulative time spent by all such
                                     equipment at the location, including the time between the removal of the
                                     original equipment and the installation of the replacement equipment, will
                                     be counted in determining whether the equipment remains at the same
                                     location for a period in excess of twelve months.
                              220.2 The source (emission unit)equipment is used in connection with
                                     seasonal operations at a location, and it remains or will remain at thea
                                     location for the period is for no moreless than twelve months, following
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 8

Section        Change
                                  the date of initial operation, where such a period does not represent the
                                  full length of normal annual source operations, such as operations which
                                  are seasonal. For purposes of this subsection, seasonal operations are
                                  operations that take place at a single location for at least three months
                                  each year for at least two years.
                           220.3 The equipment is not removed from, or stored at,moved from one
                                  location for a period and then returned to the same locationto another in
                                  an attempt to circumvent the portable equipment residence time
                                  requirementlimitations set forth in this defintion.
                           220.4 The equipment is not operated within 1000 feet of the outer boundary of
                                  any K-12 school site, unless the applicable notice requirements of Health
                                  and Safety Code Section 42301.6 have been met.
                           220.5 The operation complies with Regulation 2, Rule 5.
                           220.6 No air contaminant is released into the atmosphere in sufficient
                                  quantities as to cause a public nuisance per Regulation 1-301.
                           220.7 The operation of the portable equipment in the Air District shall emit no
                                  more than 10 tons per year of each pollutant, including POC, CO, NOx,
                                  PM10, NPOC or SO2. For PM10, fugitive particulate emissions from haul
                                  road traffic shall not be counted toward the annual limit.
                           220.8 The operation must be exempt from CEQA, or must be covered by a
                                  chapter in the District's Permit Handbook.
                           220.9 The equipment will not cause a Synthetic Minor Facility to exceed a
                                  federally enforceable emission limit.
                           220.10 If this equipment remains at any fixed location for more than twelve
                                  months, the portable permit will automatically revert to a conventional
                                  permanent location permit and will lose its portability. To obtain another
                                  portable permit for the equipment, the owner must re-permit the
                                  equipment for the next location of intended operations. Upon written
                                  request, the APCO may exclude reasonable storage periods before the
                                  date of initial operation and/or following the date of final operation from
                                  the twelve-month time limitation.

2-1-223       Clarifying the definitions which are in the current version of Regulation 2-2-235 and also part
              of the current version of 2-1-234 at the end of the section.

               Year, Month and Day: Unless otherwise specified by an operating rule of the
               Districtregulation or by a permit condition, a year shall be any rolling 12-month period, a
               month shall be a calendar month, and a day shall be a calendar day.defined by an applicant
               or permit holder as one of the following:
                            223.1 Any consecutive 12 month period;
                            223.2 Any consecutive 4 quarter period, where a quarter is 3 consecutive
                                     months;
                            223.3 Any consecutive 52 week period;
                            223.4 Any consecutive 365 day period;
                            223.5 Any company fiscal year, provided the fiscal year is 12 consecutive
                                     months;
                            223.6 Calendar year;
                            223.7 Any other mutually acceptable period.
                            In the absence of a rule requirement, permit condition or other information to
                            determine which yearly period applies, the District shall use Section 2-1-223.1.
2-1-225        Deleted this definition because it is covered in Regulation 2-5.

               Health Risk Screening Analysis (HSRA): An analysis that estimates the increased
               likelihood of health risk for individuals in the affected population that may be exposed to
               emissions of one or more toxic air contaminants, determined in accordance with Regulation
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 9

Section        Change
               2-5-603.
2-1-229        Updated definition.

               PM10: Particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter smaller than or equal to a nominal 10
               microns. PM10 emissions shall include gaseous emissions from a source or activity that
               condense to form particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter smaller than or equal to
               10 microns at ambient temperatures.
2-1-233        Clarifying the definition. Move the section in 233.1, 233.2, and 233.3 to the proposed new
               section 2-1-234.5.

               Alter: To make any physical change to, or change in the method of operation of, change in
               throughput or production, or other similar change at an existing source that may affect air
               pollutant emissions and that does not qualify as a modification under the criteria set forth in
               Section 2-1-234. The APCO may impose permit conditions in an authority to construct or
               permit to operate for an alteration to ensure that the change authorized by the authority to
               construct or permit to operate will not result in a modification under Section 2-1-234. a source
               which may affect emissions. Such changes require a permit to operate, and may require
               permit conditions, whether or not the alteration results in an emission increase. A change in
               process stream composition is not an alteration if the source’s description in the permit and
               permit conditions allow for the change in process stream composition, and the change does
               not increase emissions beyond permitted levels. The following activities are specifically
               identified as “alterations.”
                            233.1 Replacement of burners with non-identical burners.
                            233.2 Maintenance of glass furnaces involving component replacement, unless
                                      all replacements are with identical components.
                            233.3 Expansion of the physical boundaries of a semiconductor fabrication
                                      area.
2-1-234        Clarifying the definition.

               Modifyied Source: Any existing source that undergoes aTo make any physical change,
               change in method of operation, increasechange in throughput or production, or additionor
               other similar change at an existing source and that results or maythat results in an increase
               in daily or annual emissions in any of the following amountsany of the following:
                             234.1 If the source’s daily and/or annual emissions are subject to an
                                    enforceable permit limit (including a surrogate limit on operating
                                    conditions such as production rate or capacity that is effective as a limit
                                    on daily or annual emissions) that was imposed pursuant to New Source
                                    Review requirements under District Regulation 2, Rule 2 or 40 C.F.R.
                                    Section 52.21, or as a limit imposed to avoid such New Source Review
                                    requirements by keeping emissions below New Source Review
                                    applicability thresholds, an increase in the source’s potential to emit
                                    above such permitted limit. This Subsection 234.1 does not apply to any
                                    permit limit that applies to combined emissions from multiple sources,
                                    unless it imposes an effective limit specifically on the emissions from the
                                    individual source at which the change will occur. An increase in either the
                                    daily or annual emission level of any regulated air pollutant, or an
                                    increase in the production rate or capacity that is used to estimate the
                                    emission level, that exceeds emission or production levels approved by
                                    the District in any authority to construct.
                             234.2 If the source’s daily and/or annual emissions are not subject to any
                                    enforceable limit that meets the criteria of Subsection 234.1, an increase
                                    in the source’s actual physical capacity to emit air pollutants as installed
                                    and operated at the facility, above the lowest of the following:An increase
                                    in either the daily or annual emission level of any regulated air pollutant,
                                    or the production rate or capacity that is used to estimate the emission
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 10

Section        Change
                                   level, above levels contained in a permit condition in any current permit
                                   to operate or major facility review permit.
                          234.3 For sources that have never been issued a District authority to construct
                                   and that do not have conditions limiting daily or annual emissions, an
                                   increase in either daily or annual emission level of any regulated air
                                   pollutant, or the production rate or capacity that is used to estimate the
                                   emission level, above the lower of the following:
                                   23.1 The maximum operational capacity of the source, based on design
                                          information, engineering specifications, historical operational
                                          records, or other reliable technical information describing the
                                          source’s capacity;The highest of the following:
                                          3.1.1 The highest attainable design capacity, as shown in pre-
                                                  construction design drawings, including process design
                                                  drawings and vendor specifications.
                                          3.1.2 The capacity listed in the District permit to operate.
                                          3.1.3 The highest documented actual levels attained by the source
                                                  prior to March 1, 2000.
                                   23.2 The effective capacity of the source, as limited by the capacity of
                                          any upstream or downstream process that acts as a “bottleneck”
                                          (i.e., a limit on the ability of the source to operate at maximum
                                          capacity) (a grandfathered source with an emission increase due
                                          to debottlenecking is considered to be modified).; or
                                   2.3 The capacity of the source as represented to the APCO by the
                                          source’s owner or operator at the time the source was permitted,
                                          including any information submitted in connection with such
                                          permitting that was material to the APCO’s permitting decision.
                                   This Subsection 234.2 shall apply to both daily and annual emissions
                                   whenever such emissions are not subject to an enforceable limit that
                                   meets the criteria of Subsection 234.1, and the existence of an
                                   enforceable annual limit under Subsection 234.1 does not exempt daily
                                   emissions from analysis under Subsection 234.2 and vice versa (except
                                   in the case of storage vessels, for which For the purposes of applying
                                   Section 234.3, only increases in annual emission levels shall be
                                   considered for storage vessels.
                          234.34 For The emission of any regulated air pollutant oremissions toxic air
                                   contaminants and hazardous air pollutants, a change is not a
                                   modification unless the increase in emissions determined in accordance
                                   with Subsections 234.1 and 234.2 not previously emitted in a quantity
                                   that would results in an increase in cancer risk (as defined in Regulation
                                                                                  -6
                                   2-5-206) greater than 1.0 in a million (10 ) or an increase in chronic
                                   hazard index (as defined in Regulation 2-5-208) greater than 0.20. An
                                   increase in emissions of less than the trigger levels specified in Table 2-
                                   5-1 in Regulation 2, Rule 5 shall be presumed not to cause an increase
                                   in cancer risk of greater than 1.0 in a million or an increase in chronic
                                   hazard index of greater than 0.20.
                          For the purposes of applying this definition, an hourly limit or capacity may be
                          converted to a daily limit or capacity by multiplication by 24 hours/day; a daily
                          capacity may be converted to an annual capacity or limit by multiplication by 365
                          days/year.
2-1-237        Updated definition.

               BACT/TBACT Workbook: The District guidelines, which setting forth emission limitations
               and/or control technologies constituting BACT and TBACT for a number of source types or
               categories.
2-1-239        Clarified definition.
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 11

Section        Change

               Agricultural Source: A source of air pollution, or group of sources, used in the production of
               crops, or the raising of fowl or animals located on contiguous property under common
               ownership or control that meets any of the following criteria:
                           239.1 Is a confined animal facility as defined under Regulation 2, Rule 10;
                           239.2 Is an internal combustion engine used in the production of crops or the
                                    raising of fowl or animals, including, but not limited to, an engine subject
                                    to Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 41750) of Chapter 3 of Part 4 of
                                    Division 26 of the California Health and Safety Code, except an engine
                                    that is used to propel implements of husbandry as that term is defined in
                                    Section 36000 of the Vehicle Code, as that section existed on January 1,
                                    2003;
                           239.3 Is a Major Facility, as that term is defined in Regulation 2, Rule 6, or that
                                    is a source that is otherwise subject to regulation by the District pursuant
                                    to Division 26 of the California Health and Safety Code or the federal
                                    Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 7401 eq.).
2-1-241        New Section. Addition of PM2.5 definition. With the addition of PM2.5 standards in
               Regulation 2-2, this definition of PM2.5 is added to Regulation 2-1.

               PM2.5: Particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter smaller than or equal to a nominal 2.5
               microns. PM2.5 emissions shall include gaseous emissions from a source or activity that
               condense to form particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter smaller than or equal to
               2.5 microns at ambient temperatures.
2-1-242        New Section.

              Related Sources: Two or more sources where the operation of one is dependent upon,
              supports or affects the operation of the other(s).
2-1-302       Updated standard to reflect actual practice.

               Permit to Operate: Before any person, as described in Section 2-1-401, uses or operates
               any article, machine, equipment or other contrivance, the use of which may cause, reduce or
               control the emission of air contaminants, such person shall first secure written authorization
               from the APCO in the form of a permit to operate.
                            302.1 Permit to Operate, MFR: Any facility subject to the requirements of
                                   Regulation 2, Rule -6, Major Facility Review, shall comply with the
                                   permitting requirements included hereinin that Rule in addition to
                                   securing a permit to operate under this rRule.
                            302.2 Permit to Operate, Accelerated Permitting Program: Unless subject to
                                   any of the provisions of Sections 2-1-316 through 319, a temporary
                                   permit to operate may be obtained to authorize operation of a new
                                   source or a modification or alteration of an existing source under this
                                   Section pending full review for the following categories of operation:
                                   2.1      A new source, or a modification or alteration of an existing
                                            source, if the following conditions are satisfied:
                                            1.1     The source will not have the potential to emit POC,
                                                    NPOC, NOx, SO2, PM2.5, PM10, or CO in an amount of
                                                    10 pounds or more on any day, determined without
                                                    taking into account the effect of any abatement device or
                                                    equipment; or the source has been pre-certified under
                                                    Section 2-1-405; and
                                            1.2     The source will not have the potential to emit toxic air
                                                    contaminants in an amount that exceeds any of the
                                                    trigger levels set forth in Table 2-5-1 of Regulation 2,
                                                    Rule 5, determined without taking into account the effect
                                                    of any abatement device or equipment; and
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 12

Section        Change
                                         1.3       The source is not subject to the public notice
                                                   requirements of Section 2-1-412.
                                 2.2       An abatement device that is a replacement for an existing
                                           abatement device, provided that the replacement will not
                                           increase the potential to emit any regulated air pollutant from the
                                           abatement device and the source(s) whose emissions it abates.
                                 The owner or operator of a source in either of the preceding categories
                                 may apply for a temporary permit to operate under the Accelerated
                                 Permitting Program by submitting (i) a completed permit application form
                                 and source data form(s); (ii) payment of applicable fees (the minimum
                                 permit fee required to install and operate each source); (iii) a statement
                                 explaining which of the categories in subsections 2.1 and 2.2 above the
                                 source is in; and (iv) a certification that the source meets all of the
                                 requirements of that category. The APCO shall issue aInstallation and
                                 operation of a new or modified source or abatement device which
                                 qualifies for the Accelerated Permitting Program under Section 2-1-106
                                 may commence immediately following the submittal of a complete permit
                                 application. A temporary Permit to Operate will be issued as soon as the
                                 APCO determines that the application is complete. upon determining that
                                 the application is complete and that the applicant has certified that the
                                 source satisfies the requirements of subsections 2.1 and/or 2.2 above.
                                 The owner or operator of the source may commence construction or
                                 operation of the source, or of the modification or alteration of the source,
                                 immediately upon receipt of the temporary Permit to Operate. The APCO
                                 Action shall complete a full review of thebe taken on the application and
                                 take final action in accordance with Section 2-1-408 within 35 working
                                 days of receipt of a complete application., in accordance with Section 2-
                                 1-408, provided that the Any applicable offset provisions ofrequirements
                                 under Regulation 2, Rule 2, Sections 302 and 303 are shall be satisfied
                                 before final permit issuance. The temporary Permit to Opeate shall
                                 cease to be efeective upon final action by the APCO under Section 2-1-
                                 408. During periods that the source is operating without a under the
                                 temporary Permit to Operate, the operator shall keep records sufficient
                                 to demonstrate that emissions do not exceed applicable qualifying levels
                                 for the Accelerated Permitting Program as set forth in subsections 2.1
                                 and 2.2 above.
                         302.3   Permit to Operate, Temporary Operation: A temporary permit may be
                                 obtained to allow an operator to test equipment, processes, or new
                                 formulations. A temporary permit may also be obtained for a temporary
                                 source which replaces critical equipment during scheduled maintenance.
                                 The APCO may issue a non-renewable temporary Permit to Operate a
                                 temporary operation at any source, subject to the following:
                                 3.1 The proposed operation will comply with all requirements of
                                        Regulation 1 and Regulations 5 through 12.
                                 3.2 The permit shall expire 3 months after issuance.
                                 3.3 The operator shall provide offsets, at a ratio of 1.15 to 1, for all
                                        increased emissions of NOx, POC, andPM2.5 and PM10 resulting
                                        from the use of the temporary permit.
                                 3.4 The operator shall certify that the temporary operation is for one of
                                        the following purposes:
                                        4.1 Equipment testing
                                        4.2 Process testing, including new formulations
                                        4.3 Temporary replacement of an existing permitted source with
                                               an identical or functionally equivalent source
                                 3.5 The operator shall comply with the provisions of Regulation 2-2-
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 13

Section        Change
                                          301, except that the cost-effectiveness analysis shall consider the
                                          short duration of the operation.
2-1-304        Clarifies section.

               Denial, Failure to Meet Emission LimitationsComply with Applicable Requirements:
               The APCO shall deny an authority to construct or a permit to operate if the APCO finds that
               the subject of the application would not or does not comply with theany emission limitations
               or other regulations of the District (including but not limite to the BACT and offsets
               requirements in Regulation 2-2-301 through 2-2-303), or with applicable permit conditions, or
               federal or California laws or regulations or if any required fees have not been paid. Such
               denial shall not be based solely on the type of construction or design of equipment.
2-1-319        Added section to clarify intent of permit application.

              Implied Conditions: In addition to the explicit conditions contained in an authority to
              construct and/or permit to operate, the owner and operator of a source of air pollutant
              emissions shall operate the source in conformance with any representations made or
              information submitted to the APCO in connection with the application for such authority to
              construct and/or permit to operate, provided such representations or information were
              material to the APCO’s decision to issue the authority to construct and/or permit to operate.
              Operation of the source not in conformance with such material representations or information
              shall be a violation of this Regulation.
2-1-308       Clarifies section.

               Fugitive Emissions: Fugitive emissions shall be included as emissions from a facility as
               required under this Regulation. Fugitive emissions shall be subject to all requirements of
               District Rules and Regulations, including BACT, RACT, offsets, PSD requirements, and Class
               I Air Quality Related Values and increment protection, to the same extent as emissions that
               are not fugitive in nature.
2-1-318        Clarifies section.

               Hazardous Substances: Notwithstanding any exemption contained in Section 2-1-103 or
               Section 114 through 128, any new or modified source meeting any of the following criteria
               shall be subject to the requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 1, Section 301 and/or 302. If a new
               or modified source at a PSD Major Facility facility in one of the 28 categories listed in Section
               169(1) of the Clean Air Act that emits 100 tons per year of any PSD Pollutant as defined in
               Section 2-2-223, or at a facility not listed in any such category that emits 250 tons per year or
               more of any PSD Pollutant as defined in Section 2-2-223 as defined in Regulation 2, Rule 2,
               Section 220.3, emits the following air contaminants in excess of the quantities listed below,
               then it is subject to the requirements of Sections 2-1-301 and 302.
                             318.1 0.6 ton per year of lead,
                             318.2 0.007 ton per year of asbestos (excepting demolition, renovation, and
                                      waste disposal),
                             318.3 0.0004 ton per year of beryllium,
                             318.4 0.1 ton per year of mercury,
                             318.5 1 ton per year of vinyl chloride,
                             318.6 3 tons per year of fluorides,
                             318.7 7 tons per year of sulfuric acid mist, and
                             318.8 10 tons per year of reduced sulfur compounds (including hydrogen
                                      sulfide).
2-1-320        New Section.

               Compliance With Material Representations Made In Connection With Permit
               Applications: In addition to the explicit conditions contained in an authority to construct
               and/or permit to operate, the owner and operator of a source of air pollutant emissions shall
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 14

Section        Change
               operate the source in conformance with any representations made or information submitted
               to the APCO in connection with the application for such authority to construct and/or permit to
               operate, provided such representations or information were material to the APCO’s decision
               to issue the authority to construct and/or permit to operate. Operation of the source not in
               conformance with such material representations or information shall be a violation of this
               Regulation.
2-1-321        New Section.

               Compliance With Provisions of State Implementation Plan and Other Requirements of
               Local, California and Federal Law: Issuance of an authority to construct and/or permit to
               operate for a facility under this Rule shall not relieve the owner and operator of the facility
               from the responsibility to comply fully with all applicable provisions of the state
               implementation plan for California and all other requirements under local, California and
               federal law.
2-1-402        Updated procedure.

               Applications: Every application for an authority to construct or a permit to operate shall be
               submitted to the APCO on the forms specified, and shall contain all of the following
               information:
                            402.1 Sufficient information for the APCO to determine the emissions from the
                                    sources that are the subject of the application, and to quantify emissions
                                    from the sources of any emission reduction credits that will be relied
                                    upon as part of the application.
                            402.2 Any information requested by the APCO in order to determine the air
                                    quality impact from sources that are the subject of the application.
                            402.3 All applicable fees, as described in Regulation 3.
                            402.4 If the application is subject to the New Source Review requirements of
                                    Regulation 2, Rule 2, all information required under Section 2-2-401.
                            402.5 CEQA-related information that satisfies the requirements of Section 2-1-
                                    426.
                            402.6 A certification stating whether the source triggers the requirements of
                                    Section 2-1-412.
                            402.7 A specific designation of any information contained in the application that
                                    the applicant asserts is trade secret pursuant to Section 6254.7 of the
                                    Government Code. The applicant shall submit two copies of each page
                                    containing trade secret information. One copy shall be clearly labeled
                                    “Trade Secret,” and each trade secret item shall be clearly marked. The
                                    second copy shall be clearly labeled “Public Copy,” and each trade
                                    secret item shall be redacted. The applicant shall include, for each item
                                    which it asserts to be a trade secret, a statement signed by a responsible
                                    representative of the applicant identifying that portion of Government
                                    Code Section 6254.7(d) upon which the assertion is based and a brief
                                    statement setting forth the basis for this assertion.
                            402.8 Any other information requested by the APCO as necessary to determine
                                    whether the new, modified or altered source will comply with applicable
                                    regulatory requirements.
               The application must contain required. Ssufficient information must be received to enable the
               APCO to make a decision or a preliminary decision on the application and/or on any
               exemptions authorized by this Regulation. The APCO may consult with appropriate local and
               regional agencies to determine whether the application conforms with adopted plans and with
               local permit requirements.
2-1-407.1      Changed Section numbering to reflect changes in Regulation 2-2.

                           The following requirements shall apply to renewals:
                                    1.1 Except as provided in Sections 2-1-407.2 and 407.3, an authority
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 15

Section        Change
                                      to construct may be renewed one time for an additional two years;
                                    1.2
                                      Except for renewals pursuant to Section 2-1-407.3, renewal is
                                      contingent upon meeting the current BACT and offset
                                      requirements of Regulation 2-2-301, 302 and 303.; and
                                 1.3 Except as provided in Sections 2-1-407406.2 and 407406.3, an
                                      authority to construct that has been renewed shall expire four
                                      years after the date of original issuance.
2-1-408        Changed Section numbering to reflect changes in Regulation 2-2.

               Action on Applications: Except for applications subject to Section 2-1-412, the publication
               and public notice requirements of Section 2-2-405404 or Section 2-10-402, or to the
               provisions of Rule 6 of this Regulation, the APCO shall notify the applicant in writing of
               approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the application within 35 working days of
               receipt of a completed application, unless the time is extended with the written consent of the
               applicant.
2-1-411        This is a general provision that applies to all permits and so it has been clarified to further
               explain the permit to operate process.

               Permit to Operate, Final Action: The APCO shall take final action to approve, approve with
               conditions, or disapprove a permit to operate a facilitysource subject to this rule within 90
               days after the initial date of the start-up period of the new or modified source, unless such
               time period is extended with the written concurrence of the APCO and the applicant. This
               time period may be extended upon the written request of the applicant stating the reasons
               why further start-up time is needed. In no case shall the APCO allow the start-up period to be
               greater than 180 days. An authority to construct authorizes operation of the source during the
               start-up period. All conditions, specific or implied, of the authority to construct are in effect
               during the entire start-up period.
                            411.1 Notwithstanding the above, final action taken on permits issued pursuant
                                     to Rule 6 of this Regulation shall be in accordance with the provisions of
                                     Section 2-6-410.
                            411.2 A permit approved under this section must be signed by the permit
                                     holder or by a person authorized to sign on behalf of the permit holder.
2-1-413        Updated procedure for reflect actual practice.

               Portable Equipment Operated Within the District: Any person required to obtain an
               authority to construct and permit to operate under Sections 2-1-301 and 302 for a portable
               source can elect to receive apply for a single portable permit thatwhich will allow the source
               to operate anywhere in the District. The APCO shall issue the permit, upon payment of
               standard filing, initial and permit to operate fees as set forth in Regulation 3, if the source
               satisfies all of the following requirements:, provided the APCO approves the permit, and the
               source meets the definition of portable equipment set forth in Section 2-1-220. Such a source
               is subject to the standard filing, initial and permit to operate fees in Regulation 3.
                             413.1 The source is portable as defined in Section 2-1-220.
                             413.2 The source will not emit more than 10 tons per year of any regulated air
                                      pollutant, including POC, CO, NOx, PM2.5, PM10, NPOC or SO2. For
                                      PM2.5 and PM10, fugitive particulate emissions from haul road traffic shall
                                      not be counted toward the annual limit.
                             413.2 The source will comply with all applicable provisions of Regulation 2,
                                      Rule 5.
                             413.2 The source will not be operated within 1000 feet of the outer boundary of
                                      any K-12 school site, unless the applicable notice requirements of Health
                                      and Safety Code Section 42301.6 have been met.
                             413.3 Operation of the source will not cause a public nuisance per Regulation
                                      1-301.
                             413.5 The operation must be exempt from CEQA, or must be covered by a
 Proposed Changes to Regulation 2-1
 Page 16

Section         Change
                                   chapter in the District's Permit Handbook.
                            413.6  The equipment will not cause a Synthetic Minor Facility to exceed a
                                   federally enforceable emission limit.
                          If the source remains at the same location for more than twelve months, or if it
                          otherwise ceases to be portable as defined in Section 2-2-220, the source shall
                          be subject to the requirements of Regulation 2, Rules 1, 2, and 5, as if it were a
                          new source. To obtain another portable permit for the equipment, the owner
                          must re-permit the equipment for the next location of intended operations. Upon
                          written request, the APCO may exclude reasonable storage periods before the
                          date of initial operation and/or following the date of final operation from the
                          twelve-month time limitation.
2-1-432         Changed Section numbering to reflect changes in Regulation 2-2.

                Determination of Complete Application: Except for an application which is subject to the
                publication and public comment requirements of Section 2-2-405404, the APCO shall
                determine whether an application for an authority to construct is complete not later than 15
                working days following receipt of the application, or after a longer time period agreed upon by
                both the applicant and the APCO. If the APCO determines that the application is not
                complete, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision, specifying the information
                that is required. Upon receipt of any resubmittal of the application a new 15 working day
                period to determine completeness shall begin. For an application which is subject to the
                publication and public comment requirements of Section 2-2-405404 or Section 2-10-402, the
                completeness review period(s) shall be 30 days. The application shall be deemed complete
                on the date of receipt of all information required for completeness. Upon determination that
                the application is complete, the APCO shall notify the applicant in writing. If applicable, such
                written notification shall include the District's determination that its evaluation of the
                application will be covered by the specific procedures, fixed standards and objective
                measurements set forth in the District’s Permit Handbook and that the District's evaluation of
                that permit application will be classified as ministerial and will accordingly be exempt from
                CEQA review. Thereafter only information regarding offsets, or information to clarify, correct
                or otherwise supplement the information submitted in the application may be requested.
2-1-603         New Section. Added procedures for particulate matter measuements.

                Particulate Matter Measurements: PM2.5 and PM10 shall be measured as prescribed in EPA
                Methods 201A and 202 (for measurements of emissions from specific sources) and in 40
                C.F.R. Parts 50, 53 and 58 (for measurements of ambient concentrations).
Reference to    Deleted.
Table 2-1-316
