            BAAQMD
   Air Toxics Control Programs
Health Risk Assessment Guidelines


         December 2021
           BAY AREA AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT
                           375 BEALE STREET, SUITE 600
                            SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105


                BAAQMD Air Toxics Control Programs
                  Health Risk Assessment Guidelines




1. INTRODUCTION
This document describes the Bay Area Air Quality Management District’s guidelines for
conducting health risk assessments. Any health risk assessment (HRA) that is required
pursuant to Regulation 2 Permits, Rule 1 General Requirements or Rule 5 New Source
Review of Toxic Air Contaminants or that is required to assess the applicability of
Regulation 11, Rule 18 Reduction of Risk from Air Toxic Emissions at Existing Facilities
shall be conducted in accordance with these Air District HRA Guidelines.

In accordance with Regulation 2-5-402, the Air District HRA Guidelines generally
conform to the Health Risk Assessment Guidelines adopted by Cal/EPA’s Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) for use in the Air Toxics Hot Spots
Program. In addition, these guidelines are in accordance with State “Risk Management
Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics” developed by the California Air
Resources Board (ARB) and the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association
(CAPCOA).

The Air District will periodically update these Air District HRA Guidelines to clarify
procedures or incorporate other revisions to regulatory guidelines.


2. PROCEDURES
The procedures described below constitute the Regulation 2-5-603 Health Risk
Assessment Procedures.




                                        1
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                                December 2021




2.1   Procedures for All Facilities

All HRAs for stationary source facilities shall be completed by following the procedures
described in the OEHHA Health Risk Assessment Guidelines for the Air Toxics Hot
Spots Program adopted by OEHHA on March 6, 2015 and using the recommended
breathing rates described in the ARB/CAPCOA Risk Management Guidance for
Stationary Sources of Air Toxics adopted by ARB on July 23, 2015.

The OEHHA HRA Guidelines contain several sections which identify (a) the overall
methodology, (b) the exposure assessment assumptions and procedures, and (c) the
health effects data (cancer potency factors and reference exposure levels).

A summary of OEHHA’s HRA Guidelines and an index of the relevant documents are
located at:

        Title                                          Website
  OEHHA Air Toxics Hot
                                      https://oehha.ca.gov/air/air-toxics-hot-spots
        Spots

OEHHA’s risk assessment methodology (February 2015) is located at:

            Title                                      Website
OEHHA Notice of Adoption
  of Air Toxics Hot Spots
                                https://oehha.ca.gov/air/crnr/notice-adoption-air-toxics-
Program Guidance Manual
                               hot-spots-program-guidance-manual-preparation-health-
   for the Preparation of
                                                         risk-0
Health Risk Assessments
            2015

The exposure assessment and stochastic technical support document (August 2012) is
located at:

          Title                                        Website
OEHHA Notice of Adoption
   of Technical Support         https://oehha.ca.gov/air/crnr/notice-adoption-technical-
 Document for Exposure         support-document-exposure-assessment-and-stochastic-
Assessment and Stochastic                            analysis-aug
  Analysis August 2012




                                        2
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                                December 2021


The Technical Support Document for Cancer Potency Factors: Methodologies for
Derivation, Listing of Available Values, and Adjustments to Allow for Early Life Stage
Exposures (May 2009) is located at:

         Title                                         Website
OEHHA Technical Support
                              https://oehha.ca.gov/air/crnr/technical-support-document-
  Document for Cancer
                                            cancer-potency-factors-2009
 Potency Factors 2009

The Technical Support Document for the Derivation of Noncancer Reference Exposure
Levels (June 2008) is located at:

            Title                                   Website
OEHHA Notice of Adoption
  of Air Toxics Hot Spots
Program Technical Support
                          https://oehha.ca.gov/air/crnr/notice-adoption-air-toxics-
     Document for the
                          hot-spots-program-technical-support-document-derivation
 Derivation of Noncancer
Reference Exposure Levels
        and 6 RELs

The ARB/CAPCOA Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics
(July 23, 2015) provides guidance on managing potential health risks from sources
subject to California air toxics programs and updates the Risk Management Policy for
Inhalation Risk Assessments. It is located at:

    Title                                        Website
 Final Risk
Management
Guidance July    https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/classic/toxics/rma/rmgssat.pdf
  23, 2015

Sections 2.1.1 through 2.1.6 below clarify and highlight some of the exposure
assessment procedures including exposure assumptions (e.g., breathing rate and
exposure duration), health effect values, and calculation procedures to be used for
conducting Air District HRAs.


2.1.1 Clarifications of Exposure Assessment Procedures

This section clarifies and highlights some of the exposure assessment procedures that
should be followed when conducting an Air District HRA.

2.1.1.1   Breathing Rate




                                        3
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                                  December 2021


On July 23, 2015, ARB adopted “Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of
Air Toxics”, which includes an updated Risk Management Policy for Inhalation Risk
Assessments. For the HRA methodology used in the Air Toxics NSR Program, the Air
District has conformed with these State guidelines and adopted the exposure
assessment recommendations made by ARB and CAPCOA. The policy considers the
new science while providing a reasonable estimate of potential cancer risk for use in
risk assessments for risk management decisions. This policy recommends using a
combination of the 95th percentile and 80th percentile daily breathing rates as the
minimum exposure inputs for risk management decisions. Specifically, the policy
recommends using the 95th percentile rate for age groups less than 2 years old and the
80th percentile rate for age groups that are greater than or equal to 2 years old.

To assess potential inhalation exposure to offsite workers, OEHHA recommends
assuming a breathing rate of 230 L/kg-8 hours. This value represents the 95th
percentile 8-hour breathing rate based on moderate activity of 16-70 years-old age
range.

To assess exposure to children at schools and daycare facilities, OEHHA recommends
using the 95th percentile moderate intensity breathing rates from Table 5.8 of OEHHA’s
HRA Guidelines. As a default, the Air District recommends using the breathing rate for
2<16 years (520 L/kg-8 hours) for children at schools. For a more refined analysis, the
Air District will allow the use of breathing rates for other age ranges that are tailored to
the ages of the children in the specific school under evaluation.

2.1.1.2   Exposure Frequency
Based on OEHHA recommendations, the Air District will estimate cancer risk to
residential receptors assuming exposure occurs 24 hours per day for 350 days per year.
For a worker receptor, exposure is assumed to occur 250 days per year. However, for
some professions (e.g., teachers) a different schedule may be more appropriate. For
children at school sites, exposure is assumed to occur 180 days (or 36 weeks) per year.

2.1.1.3   Exposure Duration
Based on OEHHA recommendations, the Air District will estimate cancer risk to
residential receptors based on a 30-year exposure duration. Although 9-year and 70-
year exposure scenarios may be presented for information purposes, risk management
decisions will be made based on 30-year exposure duration for residential receptors.

For worker receptors, risk management decisions will be made based on OEHHA’s
recommended exposure duration of 25 years.

As a default, cancer risk estimates for children at school sites will be calculated based
on a 9-year exposure duration, such as for a K-8 school. However, this exposure
duration may be refined based on the specific school under evaluation (i.e., 6 years for
a K-5 elementary school, 4 years for a 9-12 high school, or 3 years for a 6-8 middle
school). For any analyses using an alternative to the 9-year default duration for school


                                         4
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                                 December 2021


children, the breathing rate assumptions must also be adjusted in accordance with the
ages of the children in the school.


2.1.2 Health Effects Values

Chemical-specific health effects values have been consolidated and are presented in
Regulation 2, Rule 5, Table 2-5-1 Toxic Air Contaminant Trigger Levels for use in
conducting HRAs. The Air District has added the 8-hour reference exposure levels
(RELs) adopted by OEHHA to this table. The Air District will periodically update this
table to include OEHHA’s revisions to health effects values.


2.1.3 Cancer Risk Calculations

In accordance with OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines, cancer risk estimates should
incorporate age sensitivity factors (ASFs) and fraction of time at home (FAH)
adjustment factors. Air District HRAs should follow OEHHA’s recommended cancer risk
calculation procedures as presented in Section 8.2 of OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines.

For residential exposures, the cancer risk calculations should include the most sensitive
age groups: from third trimester of pregnancy to 30 years of age for a 30-year exposure
duration. For worker receptors, assume working begins at age 16 years.

2.1.3.1   Fraction of Time at Home (FAH)
For the initial cancer risk estimate, assume the fraction of time at home factors are
equal to one (FAH = 1.0) for the following age groups: 3rd trimester to < 2 years and 2 to
< 16 years. Use this initial analysis to assess if there are any schools within cancer risk
isopleths of one in a million or greater. If there are no schools within one in a million or
greater cancer risk isopleths, the cancer risk analysis may be refined by using the
appropriate age-specific FAH factors as identified in Table 8.4 of the 2015 OEHHA
Guidelines:
   •   FAH = 0.85 for age group: 3rd trimester to < 2 years;
   •   FAH = 0.72 for age group: 2 to < 16 years;
   •   FAH = 0.73 for age group: 16 to 70 years.


2.1.3.2   Short-Term Projects
In the 2015 HRA Guidelines, OEHHA recommends using actual project duration for
short-term projects, but cautions that the risk manager should consider a lower cancer
risk threshold for very short-term projects, because a higher exposure over a short
period of time may pose a greater risk than the same total exposure spread over a
much longer period of time. To ensure that short-term projects do not result in
unanticipated higher cancer impacts due to short-duration high-exposure rates, the Air


                                         5
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                                December 2021


District recommends that the cancer risk be evaluated assuming that the average daily
dose for short-term exposure lasts a minimum of three years for projects lasting three
years or less. For residential exposures, the cancer risk calculations should include the
most sensitive age groups (beginning with the third trimester of pregnancy) and should
use the 95th percentile breathing rates. The Air District recommends following OEHHA
guidelines for other aspects of short-term projects. In summary, the Air District
recommends:
   •    use of actual emission rates over a minimum 3-year duration for cancer risk
        assessments involving projects lasting 3 years or less, and
   •    use of actual project duration for cancer risk assessments on projects lasting
        longer than 3 years.


2.1.4 Noncancer Health Impacts

In accordance with OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines, noncancer health impacts should
be calculated using the hazard index approach. Air District HRAs should follow
OEHHA’s recommended calculation procedures for noncancer health impacts, as
presented in Section 8.3 of OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines.

Regarding Section 8.3.5 of OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines, the Air District does not
require inclusion of the contribution of background criteria pollutants to respiratory
health effects for Air District HRAs.


2.1.5      Spatial Averaging

Typically, HRA results for an individual receptor have been based on air dispersion
modeling results at a single point or location. In the 2015 OEHHA Guidelines (Section
4.7.3), OEHHA provides a refinement option that takes into account that people move
around within their property or workplace and do not normally remain at a single fixed
point for the entire exposure duration. This spatial averaging refinement may be used
for any chronic analysis in an Air District HRA. Spatial averaging is not appropriate for
an acute analysis.

After the points of interest have been identified by the air dispersion modeling analysis,
the ground level air concentration for each maximum impact point may be refined by
using the arithmetic mean of the receptor concentrations identified within a spatial
average grid instead of the single maximum impact point concentration. The modeler
shall generally center the spatial average grid around the maximum impact point, but
the modeler shall also consider facility boundaries, possible receptor locations, and
predominant wind direction. This grid shall be of an appropriate shape, shall be no
larger than 400 square meters, with a grid resolution spacing no greater than 5 meters.
Grid shape, size, and location are subject to Air District approval.




                                         6
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                               December 2021


2.1.6     Stochastic Risk Assessment

For a stochastic, multipathway risk assessment, the potential cancer risk should be
reported for the full distribution of exposure from all exposure pathways included in the
risk assessment. For risk management decisions, the potential cancer risk from a
stochastic, multipathway risk assessment should be based on the 95th percentile cancer
risk.

3. Assessment of Acrolein Emissions
CARB has issued advisories regarding acrolein emissions data determined using CARB
Method 430 (M430): http://www.arb.ca.gov/ei/acrolein.htm. The CARB advisories state
that acrolein emissions data determined using CARB Method 430 are suspect and
should be flagged as non-quantitative. Although acrolein emission factor data is
available for several types of stationary combustion sources, this data was developed
based on source tests that utilized CARB Method 430 or equally inaccurate test
methods; therefore, the validity of this acrolein emission factor data is suspect. In
addition, the tools the Air District needs to implement and enforce acrolein emission
limits are not available due to the lack of an ARB approved acrolein test method for
stationary sources.

In consideration of this information, the Air District has determined that acrolein
emissions may be included in Air District HRAs for screening or informational purposes,
but the Air District will exclude acrolein emissions from the final HRA results on which
risk management decisions will be based.




                                        7
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guidelines                                 December 2021




References


1   “Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guideline; Technical Support Document for
    Cancer Potency Factors: Methodologies for derivation, listing of available values, and
    adjustments to allow for early life stage exposures”, OEHHA, May, 2009

2   “Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines; Technical Support Document
    for the Derivation of Noncancer Reference Exposure Levels”, OEHHA, June, 2008

3   “Consolidated Table of OEHHA/ARB Approved Risk Assessment Health Values”, California
    Air Resources Board, updated October 2, 2020

4   “Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines; Guidance Manual for
    Preparation of Health Risk Assessments”, OEHHA, February, 2015

5   “Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines; Technical Support Document
    for Exposure Assessment and Stochastic Analysis”, OEHHA, August, 2012

6   “Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics”, Air Resources Board
    and California Air Pollution Control Officers Association, July 23, 2015




                                         8
