         WORKSHOP REPORT


   PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO:
AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULE 5:
NEW SOURCE REVIEW OF TOXIC AIR
          CONTAMINANTS
         Prepared by the staff of the
   Bay Area Air Quality Management District

                January 2016
                           (This page was intentionally left blank.)




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report        Page 1                     January 2016
                                              Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................................................ 3

I.    INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................... 6

II.   BACKGROUND INFORMATION ............................................................................. 6

III. AIR TOXICS NEW SOURCE REVIEW (NSR) PROGRAM ...................................... 9

IV. PROPOSED CHANGES TO AIR TOXICS NSR PROGRAM ................................. 10

      A. Proposed HRA Guideline Revisions ................................................................ 10

      B. Proposed TAC Trigger Level Changes ............................................................ 16

      C. Proposed Regulation 2, Rule 5 Amendments .................................................. 18

V. IMPACTS OF AIR TOXICS NSR PROGRAM CHANGES ..................................... 23

VI. COST RECOVERY ................................................................................................ 26



Appendix A: Proposed Rule Revisions

Appendix B: Proposed Risk Screen Trigger Level Revisions

Appendix C: Proposed Air District HRA Guidelines




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report                     Page 2                                            January 2016
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

For more than twenty-eight years, the Air District has implemented programs that are
designed to identify and reduce the public’s exposure to toxic air contaminants (TACs).
TACs are air pollutants, which may cause or contribute to an increase in mortality or in
serious illness, or which may pose a potential hazard to human health. The Air District’s
long-standing Air Toxics Program is directed at reducing TAC emissions from stationary
sources. The Air Toxics Program has three main elements that integrate federal and
state mandates and local goals: 1) the preconstruction review of new and modified
sources of TAC emissions (the Air Toxics New Source Review program), 2) the
assessment and reduction of health risks from existing facilities (the Air Toxics “Hot
Spots” program), and 3) the implementation of air pollution control measures for specific
categories of TAC sources. Over the past twenty-eight years, the Air District’s Air
Toxics Program, in conjunction with other Air District and state programs, has reduced
overall cancer risk from TAC exposure in the Bay Area by about 83%.

This report addresses proposed changes to the Air District’s Air Toxics New Source
Review (NSR) Program, including amendments to Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source
Review of Toxic Air Contaminants and associated procedures. The Air Toxics NSR
Program is a health risk-based program, where program requirements are based on
results of health risk assessments (HRA). HRA is an analysis that estimates the
increased likelihood of health risk for individuals in the affected population that may be
exposed to emissions of one or more toxic substances.

The goals of the Air Toxics NSR Program are to:
   (1) Evaluate and mitigate potential increases in public health risks resulting from new
       and modified sources emitting TACs; and
   (2) Provide net health risk benefits by improving the level of control when existing
       sources are modified or replaced.

The Air District implements the Air Toxic NSR Program through Regulation 2, Rule 5:
New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants during preconstruction permit review of
projects involving new or modified TAC emission sources. Regulation 2, Rule 5
requires an assessment of the health impacts from these projects if the TAC emissions
exceed Air District specified de minimis risk screen trigger levels. Regulation 2, Rule 5
also sets health risk thresholds that trigger mandatory use of best available control
technology for toxics (TBACT) and establishes health risk limits (permit denial levels) for
these projects.

In accordance with Regulation 2, Rule 5, project health impacts are determined through
preparation of a health risk assessment (HRA), which is completed following the Air
District’s HRA Guidelines. The Air District’s HRA guidelines generally conform to the
health risk assessment methodology that was developed by Cal/EPA’s Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) specifically for air pollution control
programs in California and to the risk management guidance for stationary sources
adopted by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and the California Air Pollution
Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). The OEHHA Health Risk Assessment
Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 3                               January 2016
Guidelines contain several sections which identify (a) overall methodology, (b) exposure
assessment assumptions and procedures, and (c) health effects data such as cancer
potency factors and reference exposure levels. The CARB/CAPCOA risk management
guidelines provide additional recommendations regarding specific types of projects.

The Air District’s current HRA Guidelines generally follow the 2003 OEHHA Guidelines,
except that the Air District’s HRA Guidelines use OEHHA health effects values adopted
as of January 1, 2010 and the Air District’s cancer risk calculation procedures include
the age sensitivity factors (ASFs) discussed in OEHHA’s June 1, 2009 Technical
Support Document for Cancer Potency Factors. These ASFs are one part of the 2015
revisions to OEHHA’s HRA Guidelines. In addition, the Air District’s current HRA
Guidelines incorporate CARB’s 2003 Interim Risk Management Policy for inhalation-
based residential cancer risk assessments.

OEHHA periodically updates health effects values and health risk assessment
procedures to reflect advances in science. Most recently, as mandated under the
Children’s Environmental Health Protection Act of 1999 or SB25, OEHHA developed
major revisions to these health risk assessment guidelines that considered protection of
children’s health. Advances in science have shown that early-life exposures to air
toxics contribute to an increased life time risk of developing cancer compared to
exposures that occur in adulthood. OEHHA’s 2015 risk assessment methodology
reflects both this greater sensitivity and more refined data in childhood and adult
exposure to air toxics. In addition, OEHHA has adopted a number of updates to health
effects values since the Air District’s HRA Guidelines were last revised.

In response to these OEHHA updates, CARB and CAPCOA adopted an updated Risk
Management Guidance Document for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics on July 23,
2015. This document provides risk management guidance for sources subject to
stationary source permitting and Air Toxic Hot Spots programs including an updated
Risk Management Policy for Inhalation Risk Assessments that replaces the 2003
Interim Risk Management Policy.

The primary purpose of this Toxics NSR rule amendment is to incorporate OEHHA’s
2015 Health Risk Assessment Guidelines and CARB/CAPCOA’s 2015 Risk
Management Guidelines into the Air District’s Toxics NSR rule. This rule amendment
will also include new and revised health effects values that have been adopted by
OEHHA since January 2010, as well as revised risk assessment trigger levels. The Air
District is proposing to move risk assessment trigger levels from the rule to the Air
District’s permit handbook. This will allow for timely incorporation of future revisions to
OEHHA’s HRA Guidelines and health effects values. The Air District is proposing a few
additional amendments to this rule to remove unnecessary language and clarify
requirements. The Air District is not proposing any changes to the current TBACT
thresholds or project risk limits.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 4                               January 2016
The overall effect of the Air District’s proposed rule revisions is that cancer risk will
increase for many projects even though emissions remain the same. This is because
estimating cancer risk using the new and better scientific information contained in the
revised OEHHA and CARB/CAPCOA guidelines will result in higher risk numbers for
many toxic air contaminants. For most toxic air contaminants, the cancer risk will
increase by about 40% for the same emissions level compared to the cancer risk
calculated using the Air District’s current HRA Guidelines. For a dozen TACs, the
cancer risk could increase by up to a factor of five. The net result of these proposed
revisions is that projects will trigger HRA and TBACT requirements and will reach
project risk limits at lower emission rates. More projects will be required to control TAC
emissions and to reduce project health impacts than would otherwise be required to do
so under the current rule.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report     Page 5                               January 2016
I.     INTRODUCTION

This report was prepared to provide information relevant to the Air District’s proposed
amendments of Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants.

The Air District seeks additional input in the development of these proposed rule
revisions from the public and other interested stakeholders, and will hold public
workshops and additional meetings for this purpose. At these meetings, the Air District
will discuss the draft rule revisions and the related OEHHA HRA Guideline revisions.


II.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Over the last several decades, public concern about air pollution has expanded from
what is typically called “smog” and other criteria air pollutants to include toxic air
contaminants (TACs). A pollutant is considered toxic if it has the potential to cause
adverse health effects such as cancer, birth defects, respiratory ailments, or other
serious illness. For more than twenty-eight years, the Air District has implemented
programs that are designed to identify and reduce the public’s exposure to TACs. As
shown in Figure 1, Air District and state toxic programs have reduced the average Bay
Area cancer risk from TACs by about 83% over the last two decades.




       Figure 1. Bay Area Lifetime Residential Cancer Risk* from TAC Exposure
       *   Cancer risk is based on average ambient air monitoring data and the risk assessment
           methodology presented in the OEHHA’s 2003 HRA Guideline.



Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report           Page 6                                   January 2016
The Air District’s long-standing Air Toxics Program is directed at reducing TAC
emissions from stationary sources. Based on the Air District’s TAC emissions
inventories, TAC emissions from Bay Area stationary sources have decreased by at
least 69% since 1990 (see Figure 2).




       Figure 2. TAC Emissions from Bay Area Stationary Sources
       *   The emission rates for several common TACs (diesel engine exhaust particulate matter, ethyl
           benzene, and isopropyl alcohol) were not available for the 1990 emission inventory.

The Air District’s Air Toxics Program is successfully continuing this downward trend in
stationary source emissions. As shown in Figure 3, carcinogenic emissions from Bay
Area stationary sources have decreased by about 63% since 2004 with emission
reductions observed for all major cancer risk drivers.




       Figure 3. Carcinogenic Emissions from Bay Area Stationary Sources


Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report           Page 7                                    January 2016
The Air District’s Air Toxics Program has three main elements that integrate federal and
state mandates and local goals:
    1) the preconstruction review of new and modified sources of TAC emissions (the
       Air Toxics New Source Review program),
    2) the assessment and reduction of health risks from existing facilities (the Air
       Toxics “Hot Spots” program), and
    3) the implementation of air pollution control measures for specific categories of
       TAC sources.

The Air Toxics New Source Review (NSR) Program and the Air Toxics Hot Spots
Program are health risk based programs. These programs have action and decision
thresholds that are based on estimated health risks for the exposed population. To
ensure parity with other Air Districts and conformity with state mandates, the Air District
follows state-wide guidance regarding health risk assessment methodologies to
evaluate public exposures to toxic air contaminants and to calculate and manage the
resulting health risks. Although these programs focus on different types sources (new
and modified sources for the Air Toxics NSR Program and existing sources for the Air
Toxics Hot Spots Program), both programs rely on the same state-wide health risk
assessment guidance: Cal/EPA’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
(OEHHA) Health Risk Assessment Guidelines.

OEHHA periodically updates these Health Risk Assessment (HRA) Guidelines to reflect
advances in science. OEHHA recently adopted a major update to the HRA Guidelines
that focused on children’s health protection: OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guideline Revisions.
The Air District is planning to update the Air Toxic NSR and Air Toxic Hot Spots
Programs by incorporating OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guideline Revisions into the Air
District’s health risk assessment procedures for these programs.

This report discusses changes to the Air Toxics NSR Program and amendments to the
rule that implements this program: Regulation 2, Rule 5, New Source Review of Toxic
Air Contaminants. The primary goal of this rule amendment is to incorporate OEHHA’s
2015 HRA Guideline Revisions into this rule.

The revisions to the Air Toxic Hot Spots Program will be discussed at a later date in a
separate rule making effort.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 8                               January 2016
III.      AIR TOXICS NEW SOURCE REVIEW (NSR) PROGRAM

The Air Toxics NSR Program was established in 1987 at the direction of the Air
District’s Board of Directors and was initially implemented based on policies and
procedures established by the Air District’s Air Pollution Control Officer (APCO). In
2005, the Air District updated the Air Toxics NSR Program and codified the Air Toxics
NSR policies and procedures in Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic Air
Contaminants, in the Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4: New and Modified
Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants, and in the BAAQMD Health Risk Screening
Analysis (HRSA) Guidelines. In the last 2010 rule amendment, the Air District updated
Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants to include new and
revised health values as well as age-sensitivity factors.1

The goal of the Air Toxics NSR Program is to evaluate and mitigate potential increases
in public health risks resulting from new and modified sources of TACs based on
preconstruction permit review. The program is also intended to reduce existing health
risks by requiring updated control requirements when older, more highly polluting,
sources are modified or replaced. Regulation 2, Rule 5 contains health risk based
thresholds at which a new or modified source must employ Best Available Control
Technology for Toxics (TBACT) and health risk limits that each project cannot exceed.
The rule also delineates the procedures to be used for calculating TAC emission
increases from sources and projects and for evaluating the health impacts that result
from these emission increases.

When evaluating heath impacts from new and modified sources, the Air District follows
the BAAQMD Health Risk Assessment (HRA) Guidelines, which generally conform to
State Air Toxics Hot Spots Health Risk Assessment (HRA) guidelines. The California
Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) periodically revises the
State HRA guidelines and has made a number of changes since the BAAQMD HRA
Guidelines were updated in 2010.

The Air Toxics NSR program relies on two primary program components:
   (1)    risk assessment, which involves estimating risk for a project using a
          prescribed methodology, and
   (2)    risk management, which involves taking action on the project based on risk
          action levels.

The stringency of the program is affected by both the methodology and the action
levels. Stringency can be increased either by changes in methodology that result in a
higher calculated risk or by reductions in the risk action levels.



1
       Age sensitivity factors are cancer risk adjustment factors that account for children’s heightened
       sensitivity to air toxics. OEHHA first identified age sensitivity factors in a June 2009 Technical
       Support Document for the OEHHA HRA Guidelines. These age sensitivity factors are one of
       measures OEHHA included in the 2015 HRA Guideline Revisions.

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report              Page 9                                   January 2016
IV.       PROPOSED CHANGES TO AIR TOXICS NSR PROGRAM

The Air District is proposing to increase the stringency of the Air Toxics NSR Program
by incorporating updated HRA procedures that will result in higher calculated risks for
the same level of emissions. The Air District is not proposing any changes to the risk
action levels for the Air Toxics NSR Program.

The Air District is proposing to make the following specific revisions to the Air Toxics
NSR Program:
         Implement OEHHA’s Revised Health Risk Assessment Guidelines (2015)
         Implement CARB/CAPCOA Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources
          of Air Toxics (2015)
         Relocate the Air District’s table of toxic air contaminant emission rate trigger
          levels for health risk assessment requirements from Regulation 2, Rule 5 to the
          Air District’s Permit Handbook, and update regulatory references to this table
         Update the Air District’s acute and chronic emission rate trigger levels for toxic air
          contaminants
         Clarify terminology and procedures in Regulation 2, Rule 5

The primary goal of these revisions is to ensure that the Air District’s Air Toxics NSR
Program conforms to the most recent state-wide risk assessment and risk management
guidance. In 2015, OEHHA and CARB adopted major changes to the risk assessment
and risk management guidance documents. The Air District’s HRA Guidelines need to
be revised to include these 2015 guidance document revisions.

In addition, the Air District’s toxic air contaminant (TAC) trigger levels need to be revised
to include the 2015 updates to the health risk calculation procedures and the 2010-2015
updates to TAC health effects values. Moving the Air District’s TAC trigger level table to
the Air District’s Permit Handbook will enable the Air District to make more timely
updates to these trigger levels in response to future OEHHA updates of health effects
values or risk assessment methods.

Finally, the Air District is proposing revisions to Regulation 2, Rule 5 with the intention of
making rule language consistent with state guidance documents, streamlining
procedures and clarifying text.


A.        Proposed HRA Guideline Revisions

As mandated under the Children’s Environmental Protection Act of 1999 or SB25,
OEHHA has been evaluating a number of revisions to health risk assessment
procedures to include consideration of children’s health protection. In the last decade,
advances in science have shown that early-life exposures to air toxics contribute to an


Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report         Page 10                               January 2016
increased lifetime risk of developing cancer, or other adverse health effects, compared
to exposures that occur in adulthood.

On March 6, 2015, OEHHA adopted a revised Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Guidance
Manual for the Preparation of Health Risk Assessments to replace the 2003 Air Toxic
Hot Spots Guidance Manual. OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines reflect both children’s
greater sensitivity to toxic air contaminants and more refined data related to childhood
and adult exposure to air toxics. OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines affect how risk
assessments are conducted.

On July 23, 2015, California Air Resources Board (CARB) adopted the CARB/CAPCOA
Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics. This document
provides guidance on managing potential cancer and non-cancer health risks from
sources subject to Air Toxics New Source Review Permitting and Air Toxics Hot Spots
Programs. This document includes additional recommendations that affect how risk is
calculated for certain types of risk assessments.

The Air District is proposing to incorporate both of these guidance documents into the
Air District’s Toxic NSR Program. OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines include five key
revisions to health risk assessment procedures, which are as follows:
     Age Sensitivity Factors;
     Age-Specific exposure variables;
     Fraction of Time at Home;
     Exposure Duration; and
     Spatial Averaging of Exposure Concentrations

These five key HRA revisions and the Air District’s proposals for incorporating these
procedures into the Air District’s HRA Guidelines are discussed below.

Age Sensitivity Factors (ASFs)

OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines include adjustment factors that account for children’s
heightened sensitivity to air toxics. These adjustment factors are referred to as age-
sensitivity factors (ASFs), which are age-specific weighting factors used to reflect
children’s special sensitivity to carcinogens. The ASFs include a 10-fold multiplier in
sensitivity for infants less than age two, a three-fold increase in sensitivity for children
ages two to sixteen years old, and a sensitivity factor of one for ages sixteen and older.

The Air District incorporated ASFs into the Air District’s most recent amendment of the
BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program Health Risk Screening Analysis Guidelines and has
been using ASFs in toxic NSR health risk assessments since January 2010. The Air
District is proposing to continue using ASFs in cancer risk calculation procedures, as
described in OEHHA’s 2015 HRA Guidelines. Since the Air District is already using
ASFs in toxic NSR health risk assessments, Bay Area projects will not be affected by
this revision to the OEHHA cancer risk calculation procedures.


Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 11                               January 2016
Age-Specific Exposure Variables

People can be exposed to toxic air contaminants (TACs) in a variety of ways (e.g. by
breathing in TACs present in the ambient air, by skin exposure to TACs in ambient air,
by ingestion of food or water on which TACs have been deposited, etc.) 2 For each of
these possible exposure pathways, a risk assessor needs general population data (such
as breathing rates, skin uptake rates, food ingestion rates, etc.) in order to calculate
potential health risks. In the 2003 HRA Guidelines, OEHHA recommended exposure
variables for three exposure durations and population sets: 9 year exposure duration for
students, 30 year exposure duration for workers, and 70 year exposure duration for
residents.

For the 2015 HRA Guidelines, OEHHA developed exposure variables for six age groups
including the last trimester to birth, birth to < age 2, age 2 < 9, age 2 to < 16, age 16 to
< 30, and age 16 to 70 years. These age groups allow for more refined exposure
information to be used when estimating exposure and potential health impacts over
time.

For cancer risk calculations, OEHHA recommends using the 95th percentile of the daily
breathing rates for each of the above age groups when conducting a Tier I point risk
estimate of residential cancer risk. However, OEHHA gives the risk assessor flexibility
to use more appropriate site-specific data or a stochastic approach as a more refined
risk estimate.

When considering appropriate breathing rate assumptions for risk management
decisions, CARB recommends using the 95th percentile breathing rate for the most
sensitive age groups (less than 2 years old) and using the 80th percentile breathing
rates for other age groups (2 years old and up), when calculating the exposure rates for
the inhalation pathway. 3 This is referred to as the 95/80 daily breathing rate (DBR)
policy. This policy continues the 2003 policy of using at least the 80th percentile DBR
for residential locations.

The 95/80 DBR policy is modeled after the OEHHA derived approach for assessing
risks for pollutants with multiple exposure pathways. For multi-pathway analyses,
OEHHA recommends using high-end exposure parameters for all pathways to
determine which pathways are driving the risk. The risk estimate is then refined by
using high-end exposure parameters for the two pathways that contribute most to risk
and by using average exposure parameters for the remaining pathways. The 95/80
DBR policy is more conservative than the derived approach, because it uses the higher
80th percentile DBR for the non-driving age rate groups instead of an average DBR.

2
    While it is possible for people to be exposed to TACs through a number of different exposure
    pathways, most TACs only cause adverse health effects when people are exposed via the inhalation
    pathway. There are only 20-30 “multi-pathway” TACs that have health effects values for non-
    inhalation pathways in addition to the inhalation pathway. Most of these multi-pathway TACs are
    metals or heavy long chain hydrocarbons.
3
    CARB/CAPCOA Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics, Appendix D

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report          Page 12                                  January 2016
The Air District has evaluated both the OEHHA Tier I DBR recommendation (95th
percentile for all inhalation age groups) and the CARB 95/80 DBR policy. The CARB
95/80 DBR policy is more consistent with the Air District’s current approach (using 80th
percentile DBR for residential inhalation exposures, if inhalation is the only cancer risk
pathway). The CARB 95/80 DBR is more conservative than the Air District’s current
approach but less conservative than the OEHHA Tier 1 DBR approach. Based on
CARB and CAPCOA analyses of these approaches, the Air District considers the CARB
95/80 DBR policy to be the best practice in the implementation of age specific exposure
variables. Therefore, the Air District is proposing to use the CARB 95/80 DBR policy for
residential exposure calculations, if inhalation is the only cancer risk pathway.

The       incorporation   of    exposure     variables for    six  age    groups
and the use of the CARB 95/80 DBR policy for inhalation pathways are expected to
result in higher cancer risks for the same level of emissions compared to the Air
District’s current HRA Guidelines and procedures.

Fraction of Time at Home (FAH)

Under the 2003 Risk Assessment Guidance, residential receptors are assumed to be at
their home 24 hours a day, or 100% of the time. In the 2015 Risk Assessment
Guidance, OEHHA includes adjustments to exposure duration to account for the fraction
of time at home (FAH), which can be less than 100% of the time, based on updated
population and activity statistics. The FAH factors are age-specific and are: 0.85 for
third trimester of pregnancy to less than 2 years old, 0.72 for ages 2 to < 16 years, and
0.73 for ages 16 to 70 years. For facilities or projects that have a school nearby,
OEHHA recommends that a screening approach first be used to determine the potential
health risk near the school. If the school is located in an area where the residential
cancer risk is greater than 1 in a million, the risk calculations should use an FAH factor
of 1 for the child age groups (3rd Trimester, 0<2 years of age, and 2<16 years of age).

The Air District is planning to incorporate these FAH recommendations into the Air
District’s HRA calculation procedures. The initial residential cancer risk calculations
should use a default FAH of one (1.00) for all child age groups, as shown in the
following table. If this initial analysis finds that schools are only located within areas
where the residential cancer risk is less than one in a million, the residential cancer risk
calculations may be refined by including appropriate FAH factors for each age group.

           Table A.1 Air District Fraction of Time at Home (FAH) Assumptions
Age Group                                   Default FAH                        Refined FAH *
3rd Trimester to < 2 years                     1.00                                 0.85
2 to < 16 years                                1.00                                 0.72
16 to 70 years                                 0.73                                 0.73
*   These refined FAH assumptions shall only be used if an initial analysis has demonstrated that there
    are no schools located within areas where the residential cancer risk is one in a million or higher.



Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report           Page 13                                    January 2016
The use of FAH factors results in a small reduction in cancer risk for the same level of
emissions compared to the Air District’s current calculation methodology.


Exposure Duration

Currently, the Air District uses a 70-year lifetime exposure duration for residences and a
40-year exposure duration for workers, in accordance with OEHHA’s 2003 Risk
Assessment Guidance. Based on updated demographic data, OEHHA is now
recommending a 30-year exposure duration for residents and a 25-year exposure
duration for workers. The residency data is in-line with EPA approved assumptions for
residents, and the worker assumption more accurately represents the current length of
employment time. These shorter exposure duration assumptions for residents and
workers result in a small reduction in cancer risk compared to the Air District’s current
risk calculation procedures.

For short-term projects, such as construction or remediation projects, the Air District’s
current health risk calculation procedure uses a minimum project duration of 9 years for
the cancer risk assessment based on 2003 OEHHA guidelines. In the 2015 guidelines,
OEHHA recommends:
     no cancer risk assessment for projects lasting less than 2 months,
     use of a 6-month duration for cancer risk assessments involving projects lasting
       between 2 and 6 months, and
     use of actual project duration for cancer risk assessments on projects lasting
       longer than 6 months.
However, OEHHA also recommends that the risk manager consider a lower cancer risk
threshold for very short term projects, because a higher exposure over a short period of
time may pose a greater risk than the same total exposure spread over a much longer
period of time.

To ensure that reducing project duration does not result in unanticipated higher cancer
impacts due to short-duration high exposure rates, the District is proposing to require a
minimum 3-year exposure duration assumption for cancer risk assessments on projects
lasting 3 years or less. In other words, for projects lasting three years or less, the
District will assume that the average daily project emissions continue for a minimum of a
3-year period. This 3-year exposure duration assumption ensures that residents will not
be exposed to any greater concentrations of TACs than the TAC concentrations allowed
by the Air District’s current HRA procedures.

Spatial Averaging of Concentrations

OEHHA’s revised guidance provides an option for spatially averaging dispersion
modeling results for determining a project’s potential health risk. Spatial averaging is a
technique used to estimate the overall impact on a given receptor by averaging the
modeled concentrations over a discrete area, instead of using a single point to
determine potential cancer and chronic noncancer health impacts. The area over which

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report     Page 14                              January 2016
concentrations may be averaged is 400 square meters (20 meter by 20 meter area at 5
meter intervals).

The Air District is proposing to add spatial averaging as a potential HRA refinement
option. The impacts of spatial averaging depend on the type of release point and
distance to receptors. While for some projects, spatial averaging can result in a small
reduction in health impacts, the Air District believes that spatial averaging is more
reflective of actual TAC exposure.

Overall Impacts of HRA Guideline Changes

The vast majority of Air District NSR risk assessments involve toxic air contaminants
that have a single exposure pathway (the inhalation pathway). Examples of common
inhalation only TACs are: diesel engine exhaust particulate matter, benzene,
formaldehyde, and perchloroethylene. As reported in the CARB/CAPCOA Risk
Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics, inhalation cancer risks
calculated using the 2015 risk assessment procedures are expected to be 1.5 to 3 times
higher than inhalation cancer risks calculated using OEHHA’s 2003 Risk Assessment
Guidelines for the same emission rate and cancer potency value. Age sensitivity factors
are the largest contributor to this projected increase in cancer risk. The Air District has
included age sensitivity factors in its Toxics NSR program health risk assessments
since 2010. As a result, the Air District expects that including the remaining guideline
changes (age specific exposure variables with the CARB 95/80 daily breathing rate
policy, fraction of time at home, exposure duration, and spatial averaging) will result in
about a 40% increase in inhalation cancer risk for most sources compared to the Air
District’s current toxics NSR risk assessment procedures.

For health risk assessments that include TACs with multiple exposure pathways,4
OEHHA’s 2015 HRA procedures may result in additional increases in calculated cancer
risk compared to the 2003 HRA procedures. Due to the wide variety of possible
multiple exposure pathway projects, it is difficult to predict exactly how large of an
impact the 2015 risk calculation procedures will have on future projects. However, the
Air District found that using 2015 HRA procedures in HRAs for several projects involving
multi-pathway pollutants resulted in cancer risks that were 3-5 times higher than cancer
risks determined using current Air District procedures. Less than 5% of the Air District’s
new source review risk assessments involve multi-pathway pollutants.




4
    TACs with multi-pathway cancer impacts include: arsenic, inorganic arsenic compounds, chromium
    (hexavalent), inorganic hexavalent chromium compounds, di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP),
    hexachlorocyclohexanes, lead, inorganic lead compounds, 4,4-methylene dianiline and its dichloride,
    polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated dibenzo-
    p-dioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and dioxin like PCBs.

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report           Page 15                                   January 2016
B.     Proposed TAC Trigger Level Changes

The Air District uses toxic air contaminant (TAC) emission rate trigger levels to
determine the need for a health risk assessment (HRA) for a project involving new and
modified sources. The TAC trigger levels are considered to be reasonable de minimus
emission rates (acute and chronic) for use at a project-level. Projects with emissions
below the TAC trigger levels are unlikely to cause, or contribute significantly to, adverse
health risks. These TAC trigger levels are also used: (1) to establish permit
requirements for certain sources that may otherwise qualify for permit exemptions, (2)
as part of the applicability of the accelerated permit program, and (3) in determining
permit fees.

The Air District is proposing to move the Toxic Air Contaminant (TAC) Trigger Levels
table from the rule (Table 2-5-1) to the Air District’s permit handbook. This will allow for
more timely incorporation of future updates to OEHHA HRA guidelines and health value
revisions. The Air District is proposing to rearrange the columns in this table for user
convenience. In addition, the Air District is proposing to revise the TAC trigger levels
based on OEHHA’s revised health risk assessment guidelines (2015) and based on any
new or revised health effects values adopted by OEHHA since Table 2-5-1 was last
revised. A copy of the proposed revisions to the Toxic Air Contaminant (TAC) Trigger
Levels table is provided in Appendix B of this staff report. This table identifies the
proposed changes to the Air District HRA trigger levels and the toxicity weighting factors
for each TAC, and it includes all health effects value revisions on which the new trigger
levels and toxicity weighting factors are based.

The proposed TAC trigger levels are calculated using: (1) target health risk levels that
are considered de minimus for project-level risks; (2) OEHHA health effect values; (3)
generally conservative modeling procedures that establish the extent to which a TAC is
transported and dispersed in the atmosphere after it is emitted from the source; and (4)
health-protective assumptions regarding the extent of an individual’s response to an
emitted TAC.

For non-carcinogenic compounds, the trigger levels will not change unless there is an
updated OEHHA health effect value for that compound. The proposed TAC trigger
levels will decrease by about 30% for most carcinogenic TACs. For a few compounds
that have significant carcinogenic impacts from a non-inhalation pathway (lead,
methylene dianiline, PCBs, and chlorinated dioxins and furans), the TAC trigger level
will decrease by about 90%.

Target Health Risk Levels

For the proposed TAC trigger levels, the Air District is not proposing any changes to the
target health risk levels. For chronic health risk, the Air District uses a cancer risk of 1.0
in a million (1.0 x 10-6) and a non-cancer hazard index of 0.2 as the target health risk
levels; these are the risk thresholds at which TBACT is required (Section 2-5-301). For

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report       Page 16                               January 2016
acute health risk, the Air District uses a hazard index of 1.0 as the target health risk
level, which is the same as the acute non-cancer hazard index limit for projects (Section
2-5-302.3).

Health Effects Values and Toxicity Weighting Factors

The Air District’s current TAC trigger level table contains OEHHA health effects values
that were adopted by OEHHA prior to January 6, 2010. This table also includes Air
District toxicity weighting factors that are used for calculating toxicity weighted
emissions for modified sources. These toxicity weighting factors are based on the
chronic health effects values for the compound and include: chronic reference exposure
level (CREL) weighting factors and cancer potency (CP) weighting factors. The Air
District developed these weighting factors assuming multi-pathway exposure where
applicable, and continuously operating sources for residential receptor exposure. The
Air District’s proposed TAC trigger level table in Appendix B incorporates all health
effects values adopted by OEHHA as of November 1, 2015 and any updates to the Air
District’s toxicity weighting factors due to revisions of either OEHHA guidelines or
OEHHA health effect values. The specific changes to the Air District’s table are
discussed in more detail below.

After the Air District’s TAC trigger level table was last revised in 2010, OEHHA added a
new non-carcinogenic TAC, caprolactam. OEHHA also updated acute or chronic
reference exposure levels (RELs) for the following compounds: benzene, 1,3-butadiene,
nickel, nickel compounds, selenium, and selenium sulfide. Previously, the acute RELs
for some compounds were based on exposure periods longer than 1 hour, and the Air
District had identified these compounds in Footnote 3 to the Air District’s TAC trigger
level table. OEHHA revised these acute RELs such that all acute RELs are now based
on a 1 hour exposure period. The Air District is incorporating all of these REL related
revisions into the proposed TAC trigger level table and is updating the related non-
carcinogenic toxicity weighting factors (CRELs) and trigger levels.

In addition to the REL revisions above, OEHHA adopted 8-hour RELs for the following
compounds: acetaldehyde, acrolein, arsenic, inorganic arsenic compounds, arsine,
benzene, 1,3-butadiene, caprolactam, formaldehyde, manganese, manganese
compounds, mercury, inorganic mercury compounds, mercuric chloride, nickel, and
nickel compounds. The Air District does not use these 8-hour RELs to calculate risk
assessment trigger levels, but these 8-hour RELs are used in worker exposure
assessments. The Air District is identifying the new 8-hour RELs in the proposed TAC
trigger level table in Appendix B.

OEHHA has not revised any inhalation cancer potency factors since 2010, but OEHHA
added an oral cancer potency factor for hexavalent chromium in 2011. The Air District
is updating the associated toxicity weighting factor (CP) and chronic trigger level for
hexavalent chromium compounds.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report    Page 17                              January 2016
For compounds with multi-pathway carcinogenic health effects (any compounds with an
oral cancer potency value), the cancer risk calculation procedures are changing due to
the new OEHHA guidelines. These cancer risk calculation procedure revisions also
affect the Air District’s toxicity weighting factors for such compounds. Therefore, the Air
District is proposing to revise the cancer potency (CP) weighting factors for all
carcinogens with multi-pathway exposure routes.

OEHHA updated the Toxicity Equivalency Factors (TEFs) for a number of chlorinated
dioxins and furans and dioxin-like PCBs. These updates are included in the Air Districts
proposed TAC trigger level table, and the Air District is removing an obsolete sub-
category for PCBs.

Air Dispersion Modeling Procedures and Receptor Response Assumptions

The Air District’s TAC trigger levels are calculated using conservative air dispersion
modeling procedures and receptor response assumptions. These calculations include
several criteria that are impacted by the OEHHA guideline revisions, such as breathing
rate and exposure duration assumptions. The revised trigger levels were calculated
using the new default data and procedures for residents that are discussed in detail in
Section IV.A. (i.e. 95/80 DBR policy for the age-group specific breathing rates, default
FAH values for each age-group, and 30-year exposure duration). The current trigger
levels already include consideration of age sensitivity factors. The air dispersion
modeling procedures and receptor location assumptions did not change.


C.     Proposed Regulation 2, Rule 5 Amendments

The Air District is proposing to amend Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of
Toxic Air Contaminants. The rule is organized into six sections as follows: General
(section numbers in the 100’s), Definitions (200’s), Standards (300’s), Administrative
Requirements (400’s), Monitoring and Records (500’s), and Manual of Procedures
(600’s). In addition, the Air District is proposing to move risk screen trigger levels (Table
2-5-1) from the rule to the Air District’s permit handbook. This will allow for timely
incorporation of future revisions to OEHHA’s HRA Guidelines and health effects values.
A copy of the proposed revisions to this rule is provided in Appendix A of this staff
report. The proposed revisions to each section of this rule are discussed below.

General Requirements

The General requirements define the applicability of the rule and identify any
exemptions from the rule or from specific sections of the rule.

Section 2-5-110: Exemption, Low Emission Levels: The Air District is proposing to
clarify that project emission increases for a TAC must be less than both the acute and
chronic trigger levels for the TAC to qualify for this exemption. The Air District is also
proposing a new location for the Air District’s Toxic Air Contaminant Trigger Levels

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 18                               January 2016
table. The Air District is proposing to remove this table from Regulation 2, Rule 5 to
ensure more timely updates of health effects values and risk assessment procedural
updates. This table and the new location are also identified in Sections: 222, 223, 402,
and 604.

Section 2-5-112: Limited Exemption, Modified Source with No Increase in Toxicity
Weighted Emissions: The Air District is proposing to add this section to clarify how
contemporaneous emission reductions at a modified source are taken into
consideration. As described in Sections 2-5-216 and 2-5-601.4, the Air District may
consider contemporaneous emission reductions at a modified source when calculating
emissions for that source or conducting a risk assessment for a project involving that
modified source. The Air District added these provisions for handling contemporaneous
emission reductions at a modified source to encourage modifications that would result in
lower toxicity weighted emissions for a source. However, the current language is not
clear about the specific procedures to follow when a modified source has lower toxicity
weighted emissions after a modification. Therefore, the Air District is proposing to add
Section 2-5-112, which will exempt a modified source from the requirement to undergo
a new health risk assessment, if the source modification does not result in any
increases in toxicity weighted emissions. This exemption is a limited exemption
because other sections of Regulation 2, Rule 5 may still apply to the modified source.
For example, if a source is currently subject to TBACT and undergoes a modification
that results in a decrease in toxicity weighted emissions, the source would continue to
be subject to TBACT, unless the applicant requests a new HRA to demonstrate that the
post-modification source would not trigger TBACT pursuant to Regulation 2-5-301. A
modified source that is part of a larger project would still contribute to the project’s
emissions, and the post-modification emissions would need to be included in the
calculation of total project emissions to assess the applicability of Section 2-5-110.
Likewise, the post-modification emissions of a modified source may need to be included
in the health risk assessment for the entire project to ensure compliance with project
risk limits in Section 2-5-302 or with Air Toxic Hot Spots Act requirements. The Air
District is also proposing to delete text concerning contemporaneous emission
reductions at a modified source from Sections 216 and 601.4 to avoid confusion.

Section 2-5-113: Applicability and Circumvention: The Air District is proposing to
renumber this section due to the addition of Section 112 above.

Definitions

This section of the rule contains definitions for terms used in this rule. These definitions
are necessary to clarify the Air District’s emissions calculations and risk assessment
procedures. The Air District is proposing to modify a number of definitions to ensure
conformity with the 2015 risk assessment and risk management guidelines. The Air
District is also proposing definition revisions to clarify and streamline calculation
procedures for modified sources.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 19                               January 2016
Section 2-5-206: Cancer Risk: The Air District is proposing to revise this definition to
be more consistent with OEHHA’s 2015 risk assessment procedures. Cancer Risk may
be determined for a variety of exposure durations, depending on the type of receptor
(resident, worker, student, etc.).

Section 2-5-211: Health Risk Screening Analysis: The Air District is proposing to
change the term and acronym “Health Risk Screening Analysis (HRSA)” to “Health Risk
Assessment (HRA)” for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology. The new term and
acronym are used throughout the rule in Sections: 212, 217, 218, 221, 401, 402, and
603.

Section 2-5-212: Maximally Exposed Individual, or MEI: The Air District is proposing
to change the acronym HRSA to HRA for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology.

Section 2-5-216: Project: The Air District is proposing to extend the related permit
application look-back period from two years to three years, because projects may take
longer than two years to complete. The purpose of this revision is to further discourage
circumvention of HRA requirements. The Air District is also proposing to remove the
calculation baseline of January 1, 1987 that applies to modified sources to streamline
emission calculation procedures for modified sources. As discussed above for Section
2-5-112, the Air District is proposing to clarify the impacts of having no increase in
toxicity weighted emissions at a modified source by adding Section 112 and removing
unnecessary language from Sections 216 and 601.4.

Section 2-5-217: Project Risk: The Air District is proposing to change the acronym
HRSA to HRA for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology.

Section 2-5-218: Receptor Location: The Air District is proposing to change the
acronym HRSA to HRA for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology. The Air District is
also adding the term “or control” to clarify that receptor locations may be located within
the property boundary of a facility, if these locations are not under the control of a
facility, such as areas that are open to the public or that have been leased to another
entity.

Section 2-5-221: Source Risk: The Air District is proposing to change the acronym
HRSA to HRA for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology.

Section 2-5-222: Toxic Air Contaminant, or TAC: The Air District is proposing to
identify a new location for the Air District’s Toxic Air Contaminant Trigger Levels table.

Section 2-5-223: Trigger Level: The Air District is proposing to identify a new location
for the Air District’s Toxic Air Contaminant Trigger Levels table.

Section 2-5-218: Worker Receptor: The Air District is adding the term “or control” to
clarify that worker receptor locations may be located within a property boundary of a
facility if these locations are not within the control of a facility.

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report     Page 20                              January 2016
Standards

This section of the rule contains the health risk standards that apply to all new sources,
all modified sources, and all projects. The standards are summarized below. The Air
District is not proposing any revisions to these standards.

Section 2-5-301: Best Available Control Technology for Toxics (TBACT)
Requirement: This section identifies the source risk thresholds (1.0 in a million cancer
risk and 0.2 chronic hazard index) at which TBACT is required. If a source results in a
health risk that is greater than either of these TBACT thresholds, the source is required
to employ TBACT. The Air District identifies TBACT requirements for common source
types in the Air District’s BACT/TBACT Workbook, which is available on line at:
http://www.baaqmd.gov/permits/permitting-manuals/bact-tbact-workbook.

Section 2-5-302: Project Risk Requirement: This section establishes health risk limits
for the combined impacts from all new or modified sources in a project. The project
health risk limits are: cancer risk of 10.0 in a million, chronic hazard index of 1.0, and
acute hazard index of 1.0. Any project subject to this rule cannot exceed these project
health risk limits. As described in Section 2-5-216, a project includes all new or
modified sources in a single permit application and may also include new or modified
sources in previous permit applications, if the projects are related.

Although the Air District is not proposing any revisions to the above standards, the other
proposed rule revisions will make this rule more stringent, because the calculated health
risk will be higher using the proposed procedures compared to the current procedures.

Administrative Requirements

This section of the rule identifies various administrative requirements that are necessary
for the Air District to determine compliance with this rule. These administrative
requirements include various guidelines and other publications related to this rule that
the Air District must periodically update.

Sections 2-5-401: Health Risk Screening Analysis Requirements: The Air District is
proposing to change the term “Health Risk Screening Analysis (HRSA)” to “Health Risk
Assessment (HRA)” for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology.

Sections 2-5-402: Health Risk Screening Analysis Guidelines: The Air District is
proposing to change the term “Health Risk Screening Analysis (HRSA)” to “Health Risk
Assessment (HRA)” for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology. The Air District is also
removing the Table 2-5-1 citation as this table is being moved.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report     Page 21                              January 2016
Monitoring and Records

This section of the rule identifies monitoring and record keeping requirements. The
current rule indicates that the Air District may impose any reasonable monitoring or
record keeping requirements deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this rule.
The Air District is not proposing any changes to this section of the rule.

Manual of Procedures

This section of the rule identifies various procedures that must be followed when
demonstrating compliance with the standards in this rule. The Air District is proposing
revisions to these sections to streamline and improve emission calculation procedures
for modified sources.

Section 2-5-601: Emission Calculation Procedures: In Section 2-5-601, the Air
District is proposing to clarify several emission calculation procedures for modified
sources.

The current procedures for a modified source involve calculating the total post-1987
emission increases for a modified source. Actual and permitted TAC emission levels at
the January 1, 1987 baseline date can be difficult to identify and verify. In addition, a
modified source may be subject to NESHAPs, ATCMs, or Air District rules that would
require an additional assessment of an adjusted baseline TAC emission rate that is
different from the criteria pollutant adjusted baseline emission calculation procedures in
Regulation 2-2-605.

In Sections 601.3 and 601.4, the Air District is proposing to streamline emission
calculation procedures for modified sources by basing the HRA on the total post-
modification emission rate from the modified source and by removing the January 1,
1987 baseline date. This will eliminate the need to calculate pre-modification or
baseline TAC emissions for most modified sources, unless the site wants to
demonstrate that a modification has not occurred or that the project will result in toxicity
weighted emission reductions for some TACs. The proposed procedure for calculating
pre-modification baseline TAC emissions for a source is more consistent with the new
source review baseline emission calculation procedures in Regulation 2-2-605. The Air
District is also removing unnecessary text from Section 601.3.2 and is adding Section
601.3.3 to clarify toxicity weighted emission calculation procedures related to Section 2-
5-112.

Overall, the Air District’s health risk based compliance assessments will be more
comprehensive, if the toxic NSR HRA is based on the total post-modification emission
rate for a modified source instead of the post-1987 emission increases for a modified
source. In addition to verifying compliance with project risk limits, the Air District must
ensure that post-project emissions from a project will not trigger any new requirements
under the Air Toxics Hot Spots Act (such as public notification or mandatory risk
reduction). This Air Toxic Hot Spots Act compliance demonstration is less complicated,

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 22                               January 2016
if the HRA is based on total post-modification emission rates rather than post-1987
emission increases.

Section 2-5-603: Health Risk Screening Analysis Procedures: The Air District is
proposing to change the term “Health Risk Screening Analysis (HRSA)” to “Health Risk
Assessment (HRA)” for consistency with OEHHA’s terminology.

Section 2-5-604: Calculation Procedures for Toxicity Weighted Emissions: The Air
District is proposing to identify a new location for the Air District’s Toxic Air Contaminant
Trigger Levels table.

Table 2-5-1 Toxic Air Contaminant (TAC) Trigger Levels

As discussed in Section IV.B of this report, the Air District is proposing to move the TAC
trigger levels from the rule (Table 2-5-1) to the Air District’s permit handbook. This will
allow for timely incorporation of future OEHHA HRA guidelines and health value
revisions.



V.     IMPACTS OF AIR TOXICS NSR PROGRAM CHANGES

The Air District’s proposals to update the Air Toxics NSR Program will increase the
stringency of this program. Although the Air District is not proposing any changes to the
current toxic new source review risk management thresholds, implementing the 2015
OEHHA risk assessment guidelines will result in lower risk screen trigger levels for most
of the carcinogenic TACs and will result in higher cancer risks for the same level of TAC
emissions. As a result, more new source review projects will be subject to health risk
assessment requirements, more NSR projects will trigger best available control
technology for toxics (TBACT), and more NSR projects will require revisions or
limitations to meet the Air District’s project risk limits. The Air District’s proposed
changes to the Air Toxics NSR Program will reduce the amount of TAC emission
increases allowed for new projects and will reduce TAC emissions for modified sources.

The Air District conducts about 300 health risk assessments per year for a wide variety
of new and modified sources. Common source types that require HRAs include: diesel-
fired internal combustion engines, other types of combustion operations, and gasoline
stations. The Air District also conducts new source review HRAs for remediation
operations, cement plants, concrete batch plants, asphalt plants, petroleum refineries,
coating and solvent operations, tanks and loading operations, landfills, waste water
treatment plants, metal melting plants, coffee roasters, and other types of industrial
facilities.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report      Page 23                               January 2016
    Figure 4. Types of Toxic NSR Projects that Triggered HRAs during 2010-2015.

As shown above, about 80% of the toxic NSR HRAs that the Air District conducted in
2010-2015 involved diesel-fired IC engines. The Air District’s HRA trigger level for
diesel engine exhaust particulate matter is currently 0.34 pounds per year. At this
trigger level, most diesel fired engine projects, including small emergency standby
engines, are currently subject to Air District HRA requirements pursuant to Regulation 2,
Rule 5.5 Although the Air District is proposing to reduce the diesel engine exhaust
particulate matter threshold to 0.26 pounds per year, this proposed trigger level
reduction is not expected to increase the number of diesel engine projects subject to
HRA requirements because almost all diesel engine projects are currently subject to
HRA requirements. In fact, the number of diesel fired IC engine projects subject to HRA
requirements may decrease in the future as low emission Tier 4 engine projects
become more common.6

The Air District conducts about 60 HRAs per year for toxic NSR projects involving non-
diesel engine combustion operations, gas stations, remediation operations, petroleum
refinery projects, and other project types. As discussed in Section IV.B. of this report,
the Air District is proposing to reduce the HRA trigger levels for most carcinogens by
about 30% and to reduce the HRA trigger levels for a few multi-pathway carcinogens by
about 90%. These HRA trigger level reductions will increase the number of toxic NSR
projects that are subject Air District HRA requirements. The Air District expects that an
additional 100 projects per year may require HRAs as a result of the proposed trigger
level reductions. The estimated number of HRA increases per year by project type are:

5
    A 50 bhp diesel-fired emergency standby engine meeting Air District TBACT requirements and
    operating for no more than 20 hours per year for reliability related testing would trigger Air District
    HRA requirements under the current HRA trigger level for diesel PM (0.34 pounds per year).
6
    A Tier 4 diesel-fired emergency standby engine (< 150 bhp) and operating for no more than 50 hours
    per year for reliability related activities would not trigger an HRA at the proposed diesel PM trigger
    level of 0.26 pounds per year.

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report             Page 24                                      January 2016
15 per year for non-diesel engine combustion operations, 40 per year for gas stations,
10 per year for remediation operations, 10 per year for petroleum refineries, and 25 per
year for other projects.

Based on a review of recent Air District HRA results, most projects subject to HRA
requirements and using the 2015 risk calculation procedures will comply with project
risk limits without any additional project revisions, because most toxic NSR projects
have health impacts that are far below the Regulation 2, Rule 5 project risk limits. For
example, a diesel-fired engine powering an emergency generator that meets TBACT
and has a project cancer risk of 7 in a million using AERMOD dispersion modeling
procedures and current Air District risk calculation procedures would have a project
cancer risk of 9.8 in a million or less using the proposed risk calculation procedures.
Therefore, this engine project would comply with the Regulation 2, Rule 5 project risk
limit of 10 in a million cancer risk using the proposed cancer risk calculation procedures.
At least two-thirds of the toxic NSR projects that the Air District has evaluated since
2010 had a cancer risk less than 7 in a million.

The Air District expects that about one third of the toxic NSR projects (about 130 HRA
projects per year) may need to undergo additional health risk assessment refinements.
About 80 projects per year may need to reduce operating hours, throughput rates, or
emission rates in order to meet the Regulation 2, Rule 5 TBACT or project risk limits
using 2015 risk calculation procedures. Abatement devices, such as diesel particulate
filters or oxidation catalysts, may be necessary for about 10 additional projects per year.

Gas station applications are included in the above projections. Most gas station
applications involve dispenser replacements or other equipment improvements that do
not involve any emission TAC increases. Based on recent application data, about 5%
of the gas station applications (10 projects per year) involved new or modified gas
stations with TAC emission increases that were subject to health risk assessment
requirements. The Air District estimates that the proposed rule changes may increase
the number of new or modified gas stations subject to risk assessment requirements up
to about 50 projects per year.

The Air District conducted preliminary health risk assessments for several gas stations
using 2015 risk calculation procedures. The Air District found that maximum health
impacts from gas stations are highly dependent on the gasoline throughput rate and the
distance to the closest residential receptor. For the stations evaluated, a cancer risk of
10 in a million (the maximum amount allowed under the proposed Regulation 2, Rule 5)
occurred at gasoline throughput rates ranging from 2-11 million gallons per year for
resident receptor distances ranging from 60-250 feet, respectively. Thus, new gas
stations could be limited to 2 million gallons per year of gasoline throughput if
residences are located very close to the proposed gas station. For the typical resident
receptor distances observed for the large throughput level stations (at least 300 feet),
gasoline throughput rates of 14 million gallons per year could be approved for new
stations. For modified gas stations, the entire proposed throughput level will be
evaluated in the HRA, under the proposed revisions to Regulation 2, Rule 5. Thus,

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report     Page 25                               January 2016
modified gas stations will be subject to the same potential throughput limitations as new
stations: 2-14 million gallons per year.

The Air District expects that gasoline throughput rates for new or modified gas stations
may need to be limited below requested levels in some cases. Currently, about 400 gas
stations (about 25% of the retail gas stations) have a throughput rate greater than 2
million gallons per year, but only 1 gas station has a throughput rate greater than 14
million gallons per year. The Air District expects that gasoline throughput limitations
could impact 10-15 new or modified gas station projects per year. If an applicant
requests a throughput increase at a gas station and the Air District finds that the current
permitted throughput rate results in a cancer risk of more than 10 in a million, the Air
District would not approve an increase in the throughput rate. In addition, pursuant to
the Air Toxics Hot Spots Act, the gas station would need to either reduce the current
permitted throughput rate or begin conducting the Hot Spots public notification process.

In summary, the proposed revisions to the Air Toxics NSR Program will:
     Increase the stringency of this program,
     Allow less toxic emission increases for new or modified sources than would be
      allowed by the current program,
     Increase the number of new or modified projects that will be subject to HRA
      requirements from about 300 projects per year currently to about 400 projects
      per year,
     Increase the number of new or modified projects that will be required to
      implement risk reduction measures (i.e. operating time limitations, throughput
      limitations, additional abatement, or other project modifications) to meet TBACT
      or project risk limitations in Regulation 2, Rule 5 by about 80 projects per year.
     Necessitate gasoline throughput limitations ranging from about 2-14 million
      gallons per year, depending on the proximity of residential receptors to the
      project location, for about 25% of the new or modified gas station projects that
      trigger risk assessment.



VI.    COST RECOVERY

The Air District has the authority to assess fees to regulated entities for the purpose of
recovering the reasonable costs of implementing and enforcing applicable regulatory
requirements. On March 7, 2012, the Air District’s Board of Directors adopted a Cost
Recovery Policy that specifies that newly adopted regulatory measures should include
fees that are designed to recover increased regulatory program activity costs associated
with the measure (unless the Board of Directors determines that a portion of those costs
should be covered by tax revenue).

In accordance with the adopted Cost Recovery Policy, the Air District assesses risk
screening fees for new and modified sources that are required to undergo health risk
assessments pursuant to Regulation 2, Rule 5. The risk screening fees in Regulation 3:

Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report     Page 26                               January 2016
Fees, Schedules B-K have recently been updated (effective July 1, 2015). The Air
District does not anticipate a need to make any additional adjustments to risk screening
fees at this time.




Regulation 2, Rule 5 Workshop Report    Page 27                             January 2016
     WORKSHOP REPORT

   PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO:
AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULE 5:
      NEW SOURCE REVIEW OF
     TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS


            APPENDIX A

       Proposed Rule Revisions
        WORKSHOP REPORT

    PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO:
 AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULE 5:
       NEW SOURCE REVIEW OF
      TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS


               APPENDIX B

Proposed Risk Screen Trigger Level Revisions
      WORKSHOP REPORT

   PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO:
AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULE 5:
      NEW SOURCE REVIEW OF
     TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS


             APPENDIX C

  Proposed Air District HRA Guidelines
