        STAFF REPORT

          JUNE 2005


        Appendix D
     Proposed BAAQMD
   Air Toxics NSR Program
Health Risk Screening Analysis
     (HRSA) Guidelines
        BAY AREA AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT
                               939 ELLIS STREET
                           SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94109


        Proposed BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program
      Health Risk Screening Analysis (HRSA) Guidelines

D1.   INTRODUCTION
This document describes the Bay Area Air Quality Management District’s guidelines
for conducting health risk screening analyses. Any health risk screening analysis
(HRSA) that is required pursuant to Regulation 2 Permits, Rule 1 General
Requirements or Rule 5 New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants shall be
conducted in accordance with these guidelines.

In accordance with Regulation 2-5-402, these guidelines generally conform to the
Health Risk Assessment Guidelines adopted by Cal/EPA’s Office of Environmental
Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) for use in the Air Toxics Hot Spots Program.
In addition, these guidelines are in accordance with State risk assessment and risk
management policies and guidelines in effect as of January 1, 2005. Through the
District’s rule development process, these guidelines will periodically be updated to
clarify procedures, amend health effects data, or incorporate other revisions to
regulatory guidelines.


D2.   PROCEDURES
The procedures described below constitute the Regulation 2-5-603 Health Risk
Screening Analysis Procedures. Any HRSA shall be completed by following the
procedures described in the OEHHA Health Risk Assessment Guidelines for the Air
Toxics Hot Spots Program that were adopted by OEHHA on October 3, 2003 and
any State risk assessment and risk management policies and guidelines in effect as
of January 1, 2005.

The OEHHA Health Risk Assessment Guidelines contain several sections which
identify (a) the overall methodology, (b) the exposure assessment assumptions and
procedures, and (c) the health effects data (cancer potency factors, chronic
reference exposure levels, and acute reference exposure levels).
A summary of OEHHA’s Health Risk Assessment Guidelines and an index of the
relevant documents are located at:
http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/hot_spots/index.html



                                       D-1
Appendix D                        Proposed BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRSA Guidelines


OEHHA’s risk assessment methodology is located at:
http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/risk_assess/index.html

The exposure assessment and stochastic technical support document (Part IV of
OEHHA’s Risk Assessment Guidelines) is located at:
http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/exposure_assess/index.html

The cancer potency factors for carcinogenic compounds (Part II of OEHHA’s Risk
Assessment Guidelines) are located at:
http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/cancer_guide/hsca2.html

The chronic reference exposure levels (RELs), which are Part III of OEHHA’s Risk
Assessment Guideline, are located at:
http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/chronic_rels/index.html

The acute reference exposure levels (RELs), which are Part I of OEHHA’s Risk
Assessment Guideline, are located at:
http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/acute_rels/index.html

Sections D2.1 through D2.3 below clarify and highlight some of the exposure
assessment procedures including exposure assumptions (e.g., breathing rate and
exposure duration) and health effect values to be used for conducting HRSAs.


D2.1         Clarifications of Exposure Assessment Procedures
This section clarifies and highlights some of the exposure assessment procedures
that should be followed when conducting an HRSA.

   D2.1.1 Breathing Rate
   On October 9, 2003, a statewide interim Risk Management Policy for inhalation-
   based residential cancer risk was adopted by the California Air Resources Board
   (ARB) and Cal/EPA’s OEHHA (http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/rmpolicy.pdf). For
   the HRSA methodology used in the Air Toxics NSR Program, the District has
   conformed with these State guidelines and adopted the interim exposure
   assessment recommendations made by ARB and OEHHA. The interim policy
   recommends where a single cancer risk value for a residential receptor is needed
   or prudent for risk management decision-making, the potential cancer risk
   estimate for the inhalation exposure pathway be based on the breathing rate
   representing the 80th percentile value of the breathing rate range of values (302
   L/kg-day).

   To assess potential inhalation exposure to offsite workers, OEHHA recommends
   assuming a breathing rate of 149 L/kg-day. This value corresponds to a 70 kg


                                      D-2
Appendix D                           Proposed BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRSA Guidelines


   worker breathing 1.3 m3/hour (breathing rate recommended by USEPA as an
   hourly average for outdoor workers) for an eight-hour day. For children, OEHHA
   recommends assuming a breathing rate of 581 L/kg-day to assess potential risk
   via the inhalation exposure pathway. This value represents the upper 95%
   percentile of daily breathing rates for children.

   D2.1.2 Exposure Time and Frequency
   Based on OEHHA recommendations, the District will estimate cancer risk to
   residential receptors assuming exposure occurs 24 hours per day for 350 days
   per year. For a worker receptor, exposure is assumed to occur 8 hours per day
   for 245 days per year. However, for some professions (e.g., teachers) a different
   schedule may be more appropriate. For children at school sites, exposure is
   assumed to occur 10 hours per day for 180 days (or 36 weeks) per year.

   D2.1.3 Exposure Duration
   Based on OEHHA recommendations, the District will estimate cancer risk to
   residential receptors based on a 70-year lifetime exposure. Although 9-year and
   30-year exposure scenarios may be presented for information purposes, risk
   management decisions will be made based on 70-year exposure duration for
   residential receptors. For worker receptors, risk management decisions will be
   made based on OEHHA’s recommended exposure duration of 40 years. Cancer
   risk estimates for children at school sites will be calculated based on a 9 year
   exposure duration.


D2.2         Health Effects Values

Chemical-specific health effects values have been consolidated and are presented in
Table 2-5-1 for use in conducting HRSAs. Toxicity criteria summarized in Table 2-5-
1 represent health effects values that were adopted by OEHHA/ARB as of January
1, 2005. Prior to use in Regulation 2, Rule 5, any new or revised health effects
values adopted by OEHHA/ARB after January 1, 2005 will be reviewed by the
District through a rule development process. The District will evaluate the new
criteria for implementation, enforcement, and feasibility of compliance with the
project risk limits.


D2.3         Stochastic Risk Assessment

For a stochastic, multipathway risk assessment, the potential cancer risk should be
reported for the full distribution of exposure from all exposure pathways included in
the risk assessment. For risk management decisions, the potential cancer risk from
a stochastic, multipathway risk assessment should be based on the 95th percentile
cancer risk.



                                         D-3
Appendix D                          Proposed BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program HRSA Guidelines



D3.   Assessment of Acrolein Emissions
Currently, CARB does not have certified emission factors or an analytical test
method for acrolein. Therefore, since the appropriate tools needed to implement
and enforce acrolein emission limits are not available, the District will not conduct a
HRSA for emissions of acrolein. In addition, due to the significant uncertainty in the
derivation, OEHHA is currently re-evaluating the acute REL for acrolein. When the
necessary tools are developed, the District will re-evaluate this specific evaluation
procedure and the HRSA guidelines will be revised.

References

1 “Air Toxics “Hot Spots” Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, The Air Toxics Hot Spots
  Program Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments, ”, OEHHA,
  August 2003
2 “Air Toxics “Hot Spots” Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, Part IV. Technical
  Support Document for Exposure Assessment and Stochastic Analysis”, OEHHA,
  September 2000
3 “Air Toxics “Hot Spots” Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, Part II, Technical
  Support Document for Describing Available Cancer Potency Factors”, OEHHA, updated
  December, 2002.
4 “Air Toxics “Hot Spots” Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, Part III, Technical
  Support Document for the Determination of Noncancer Chronic Reference Exposure
  Levels”, OEHHA, April 2000.
5 “Air Toxics “Hot Spots” Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, Part I, Technical Support
  Document for the Determination of Acute Reference Exposure Levels for Airborne
  Toxicants”, OEHHA, March 1999.




                                        D-4
