                   Response to Public Comments on
         Proposed Technical and Administrative Amendments to
         New Source Review and Title V Permitting Regulations

Air District staff published drafts of the proposed amendments to Regulation 2, Rules 1,
2, 4 and 6, and invited interested members of the public to comment on them. This
document summarizes the comments received and the responses of Air District staff.
Air District staff initially published drafts of the proposed amendments on August 24, 2017,
and requested comments by September 25, 2015. Staff subsequently made certain
revisions to the proposed amendments and re-published them to provide a further
opportunity to comment on the additional changes. Staff provided a further comment
period on the revised proposal through November 13, 2017. The Air District considered
all comments received throughout this time period from August 24, 2017, through
November 13, 2017.
Comments were received from 350 Bay Area (both in a comment letter submitted on the
proposed amendments and in a similar letter to the Air District’s Board of Directors on
behalf of 350 Bay Area and other organizations); the Western States Petroleum
Association (WSPA); the California Department of Transportation (CALTRANS); the
California Air Resources Board (ARB); West Marin Standing Together (which supported
the comments from 350 Bay Area); and Charles Davidson.
Summaries of the comments received, and Air District staff’s responses, are provided
below. (All of the comments are available in full on the Air District’s website at
www.baaqmd.gov/permits/permit-fee-rule.) The discussion first addresses comments on
provisions included in the proposed amendments. The discussion then addresses
comments that do not address anything in the proposed amendments, but are relevant to
other related issues including certain provisions that Air District staff considered at the
public workshop stage but are not proposing for final action at this time. Staff are
continuing to work on those issues, and providing responses here will help further the
ongoing discussion with interested members of the public in developing final proposals
for consideration by the Board of Directors.
I.     Comments on the Proposed Amendments
The Air District received the following comments on provisions included in the proposed
amendments.
     A. Comments on the Offsets Equivalence Demonstration
WPSA commented on the equivalence demonstration that the Air District undertakes
each year to show that it is getting at least as many offsets under its NSR program as a
whole as EPA would require under EPA’s federal regulations. The Air District is required

                                             1
to undertake this demonstration in order for EPA to be able to approve the District’s offsets
requirements, which take a slightly different approach in certain areas than EPA’s federal
requirements do. The Air District needs to make this demonstration to ensure that its
approach is no less stringent than what EPA requires under the Clean Air Act. If for some
reason the District is ever unable to demonstrate that its approach is at least as stringent,
then major facilities will be required to follow EPA’s federal approach for providing offsets
when they undertake major modifications.
WSPA commented that if the Air District is ever unable to make the demonstration, then
the District should bear the consequences of that failure and not regulated facilities.
WSPA commented that the Air District should be obligated to come up with additional
offsets to comply with EPA’s requirements, instead of having the facilities seeking permits
provide the additional offsets. WSPA also commented that the Air District should not go
back and reopen previously issued permits to require sources that have already been
permitted and built to provide additional offsets.
Air District staff responded to similar comments from WSPA during the workshop process
and incorporate those responses here. As staff explained, in the unlikely event that the
Air District cannot show that the District’s offsets requirements are at least as stringent as
EPA’s, that would simply be an indication that, for a period of time, the Air District’s offsets
program has not been obtaining as many offsets as what EPA’s federal regulations
require. If and when that scenario ever came to pass, it would be entirely appropriate to
require the facilities seeking permits for additional air pollution to provide the additional
offsets for that pollution according to what EPA requires, instead of requiring the District
to make up the difference. Regarding reopening previously issued permits, as staff
explained during the workshop process, existing permits will not be affected in the event
that the Air District cannot make the equivalency demonstration. EPA’s federal
requirements will apply only for subsequent major sources and major modifications. That
is, only applicants seeking NSR permits for future projects would be required to provide
any additional offsets in accordance with EPA’s federal requirements. Previously issued
permits will not be reopened.
   B. Comments on Emissions Estimates Used in Calculating Emission Reduction
      Credits
WSPA raised a concern it raised earlier during the workshop process, that if the Air District
uses inflated emissions estimates for some purposes, such as assessing permit fees,
then the District should use the same inflated estimates for purposes of calculating the
amount of emission reduction credits generated when a source is shut down. The Air
District responded previously that the New Source Review program does not use inflated
emissions estimates: all NSR analyses and determinations must be based on the best
available information as to what a source’s emissions actually are. WSPA stated that this
response did not address its concerns. It suggested that the District incorporate specific
language specifying that calculations of emission reduction credits under Regulation 2-2


                                               2
should be based on the same data that the Air District has used for assessing fees and
for emissions inventories submitted under Regulation 12-15.
Air District staff disagree that it would be appropriate to require emissions estimates from
any specific context to be used for NSR permitting purposes. If that were the case, it could
potentially perpetuate faulty emissions estimates by requiring them to be used in the NSR
context even if it has become clear that they are not longer valid. The better approach is
to require emissions estimates to be based on the best information available, as is the
case under the current rule. If the most recent estimates used in permit fee calculations
or Regulation 12-15 reporting incorporate the best, most up-to-date data, then it will be
appropriate to use those estimates. If better estimates have come to light based on more
recent information, then it would be more appropriate to use that more recent information,
instead of relying on outdated, incorrect estimates.
WSPA also stated that Air District staff “have increased estimates of fugitive emissions
dramatically” with respect to petroleum refineries in the Bay Area. This comment seems
misplaced. Air District staff have not estimated fugitive emissions from individual facilities
or facility categories in connection with the proposed technical and administrative
amendments to Regulation 2.
   C. Comments on Regulatory Definitions
WSPA commented that the District should ensure that all definitions of terms in Rules 12-
15, 12-16, 13-1, 2-1, and 2-2 are consistent with each other. It stated that if a definition is
modified, the District should explain why the modification is necessary and why it does
not apply in other refinery-related rules.
Air District staff agree in general that definitions should be consistent across different
regulations to the extent possible, as staff explained in response to a similar comment by
WSPA during the workshop process – although in some cases there will be sound
reasons why differing definitions may be necessary. For example, where a similar term
needs to function differently in the context of one regulation compared to how it functions
in the context of another regulation, it may need to be defined differently in the two
regulations. Air District staff have sought to maintain consistency across all District
regulations as much as possible, however. All of the proposed revisions to definitions in
Regulation 2 are explained in further detail in the Staff Report for the Proposed
Amendments.
   D. Identification of a Typographical Error in Section 2-2-229
ARB pointed out that in Section 2-2-229, the word “been” was inadvertently omitted in the
phrase “… offsets have previously provided ….” Staff have revised the language to
correct this error. The provision now reads “… offsets have previously been provided ….”




                                              3
   E. Comments on the CEQA Analysis
CALTRANS submitted comments suggesting that the Air District revise some of the
language in the environmental and regulatory setting discussions in the Initial Study
prepared for the proposed amendments under the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA). With respect to the air quality analysis, the CALTRANS pointed out (i) that
California has established ambient air quality standards for hydrogen sulfide and vinyl
chloride, and so those pollutants should be added to the list of such pollutants in Table 3-
1; (ii) that the pollutant referred to as “visibility reducing particles” was incorrectly
referenced as just “visibility”; (iii) that the air quality discussion addresses only the primary
National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), and does not mention the secondary
NAAQS; and (iv) that the primary NAAQS for PM10 was incorrectly stated in Table 3-1.
With respect to the noise analysis, the commenter pointed out that traffic noise includes
noise from a wide variety of different vehicle types. Air District staff agree that the Initial
Study could be improved by correcting and/or clarifying the discussion with respect to
these points. Air District staff addressed all of these points in the revised Initial Study
published on October 12, 2017.
WSPA commented that the Air District is improperly “piecemealing” the proposed
amendments under CEQA by not including them as part of a larger “strategy” to regulate
emissions from Bay Area refineries. But independent rule development projects do not
implicate CEQA “piecemealing” concerns where they serve different purposes and can
be implemented independently of each other. That is the case here. The purpose of the
proposed amendments is to make technical and administrative revisions to the Air
District’s permitting programs so that they can be fully approved by EPA, so that they will
function efficiently, and so that they will conform to recent Supreme Court jurisprudence.
That purpose is completely different from, and independent of, the purposes underlying
any other Air District regulatory initiatives. And the proposed amendments to Regulation
2 can be and will be implemented completely independently of any other regulatory
initiatives. As such, CEQA does not require the proposed amendments to be evaluated
as part of the same common project as any other initiatives.
WSPA also stated that the Air District’s analysis must be based on “creditable substantive
evidence.” The Initial Study is based on such evidence, and WSPA has not identified any
area in which it contends that the Initial Study is lacking.
Finally, WSPA also stated that the Air District must consider a reasonable range of
alternatives. CEQA requires lead agencies to consider alternatives to a proposed project
that will avoid or substantially lessen any significant environmental impacts. Here, the
proposed amendments will not have any significant environmental impacts, so by
definition there cannot be any alternatives to consider that would avoid or substantially
lessen any such impacts.




                                               4
II.     Comments on Other Issues Not Included In The Proposed Amendments
The Air District also received a number of comments on things that are not included as
part of the proposed amendments. These comments are not related to the technical and
administrative amendments Air District staff are proposing for Regulation 2, and so they
have no direct bearing on what the Board of Directors will be considering at the December
6th hearing. Air District staff are nonetheless providing responses to these comments, as
they address important issues that staff have considered during the rule development
process and will be continuing to engage in in the coming months. Air District staff look
forward to continued discussions with the commenters on these issues.
      A. Comments on Requiring “Best Available Control Technology” for New and
         Modified Sources of CO2 Emissions Subject to Cap-and-Trade Regulations
The first area of comments concerned a proposal that Air District staff developed for the
public workshops under which the District would lower the threshold at which new and
modified sources would be required to use “Best Available Control Technology” (BACT)
to control their greenhouse gas emissions. The current threshold is 75,000 tpy CO2e, and
staff proposed to reduce it to 25,000 tpy CO2e. After the public workshops, however, the
Legislature enacted legislation referred to as AB 398 that preempts the District’s authority
to impose emission reduction rules for CO2 emissions sources subject to the state’s “Cap
and Trade” program. Since virtually all of the greenhouse gas emissions that would be
subject to this requirement are CO2 emissions, and since virtually all of the sources that
would be subject to it are subject to Cap and Trade, the Air District is now legally
prohibited from adopting such a regulation – at least in the form that District staff
developed it for the June public workshops. Air District staff are therefore not proposing
final action on the revised BACT threshold at this time, although staff will continue to
evaluate the potential to address greenhouse gas emissions through the District’s
permitting regulations without violating AB 398.
350 Bay Area and related commenters stated that the Air District should still go forward
with the proposal – and in fact should implement even more stringent New Source Review
requirements – notwithstanding AB 398. These commenters contended that AB 398 does
not prohibit the Air District from requiring BACT from new and modified CO2 emissions
sources subject to Cap and Trade, which is what the New Source Review program applies
to, because (according to the commenters) the legislation only prohibits Air District
regulation of existing sources. The commenters’ theory is that AB 398 prohibits only
“emission reduction rules,” and that regulations aimed at new and modified sources do
not “reduce” emissions, they simply limit the increases in emissions that would otherwise
occur from the new or modified sources. The commenters therefore contend that the
reference to “emission reduction rules” in AB 398 demonstrates that the legislature
intended the preemption to apply only to regulation of existing sources, not new or
modified sources.



                                             5
Air District staff have serious concerns regarding the legal viability of this theory, and staff
do not (at least at this point) believe that the courts would agree with it. Regulations
addressing emissions from new and modified sources can be thought of as simply limiting
the amount of new emissions that would otherwise occur, but they can equally well be
thought of as reductions in what the new or modified source would otherwise emit without
using the BACT control technology. And this is in fact how BACT requirements have
historically been referred to in the New Source Review program. For example, the Clean
Air Act defines BACT as “the maximum degree of reduction of each pollutant subject to
regulation….” (CAA § 169(3), 42 U.S.C. § 7479(3) (emphasis added).) Even the
commenters themselves use this terminology in their comment letter, stating that a very
stringent BACT requirement “would be able to achieve potential reductions” in
greenhouse gas emissions. (305 Bay Area Comment Letter, p. 9, § IV.B.2. (emphasis
added).) Given this history in the NSR program, Air District staff disagree that there is a
colorable argument that the legislature intended to exclude BACT from the scope of
“emission reduction rules” preempted by AB 398. Moreover, Air District staff have not
found anything in the legislative history of AB 398 that that would support such a
distinction; to the contrary, the legislative history suggests that the Legislature intended
the preemption provision to be a broad one. And there is nothing immediately obvious in
the underlying purpose of the Legislation to suggest distinguishing between rules
affecting existing sources and rules affecting only new and modified sources. The stated
intent of the preemption was to ensure that sources subject to Cap and Trade would have
only one set of regulatory requirements to comply with – the Cap and Trade regulations
– and would not have to comply with other, potentially conflicting, requirements adopted
by local air districts. This legislative purpose applies equally strongly with respect to new
and modified sources as it does with respect to existing sources. For all of these reasons,
Air District staff have concluded (preliminarily at least) that AB 398 preempts the Air
District’s ability to implement the revised BACT requirement as proposed at the June 2017
public workshops – although staff welcome further discussion and engagement on these
issues with the commenters and other interested parties as staff continue to evaluate the
potential for appropriate ways to address greenhouse gases under Regulation 2.
The commenters also stated that the Air District should at least impose BACT
requirements for GHG sources that are not subject to Cap and Trade requirements and
are therefore not subject to the AB 398 preemption – for example, small or medium-sized
sources below the Cap and Trade applicability thresholds. This is one of the areas that
Air District staff intend to consider for regulation going forward. These sources are not
subject to AB 398 preemption, as the commenters pointed out, and so there may be
opportunities to achieve meaningful greenhouse gas emission reductions from these
sources under the NSR permit program, by applying BACT requirements or otherwise.
There are a number of questions that would need to be answered before any regulation
could be proposed, however, such as whether there are any effective greenhouse gas
control technologies that can be used to achieve emission reductions at these sources,
and whether the cumulative magnitude of the emission reductions that could be obtained
makes regulating them worthwhile, as compared to other source categories where the Air
                                               6
District could target its limited resources. Air District staff look forward to engaging with
the commenters and other interested parties in evaluating these issues.
Finally, the commenters also pointed out that the limitations on federal regulatory
authority under the Clean Air Act as addressed in the Supreme Court’s UARG v. EPA
case do not restrict the Air District’s authority to regulate under state law. The commenters
note that the federal Clean Air Act requirements are simply minimum requirements, and
they do not prohibit the Air District from adopting requirements under state law that are
more stringent.
Air District staff agree in general with the commenters’ summary of the applicable legal
principles regarding the Air District’s authority under state law. However, EPA Region 9
staff have made clear that EPA will not approve any greenhouse gas regulations more
stringent than what the Supreme Court articulated in UARG v. EPA as part of the
federally-enforceable State Implementation Plan (SIP). Thus, the Air District needs to
revise its SIP-approved regulations to conform to UARG v. EPA, although it remains free
to go beyond that in non-SIP-approved regulations in accordance with state law. That is
exactly what Air District staff initially proposed in connection with lowering the BACT
threshold from the 75,000 tpy CO2e authorized under federal law to 25,000 tpy CO2e:
Staff’s proposal was to keep the current 75,000 tpy CO2e limit in the SIP-approved
regulation, and to put the lower 25,000 tpy CO2e threshold into a separate “state-only”
provision that would not be submitted to EPA for SIP approval. The Air District’s ability to
adopt the 25,000 tpy CO2e BACT requirement under state law was subsequently
preempted by AB 398, as explained above. But nothing prohibits the Air District from
implementing other greenhouse gas requirements in its NSR program that are consistent
with AB 398, even if they are more stringent than what the Clean Air Act requires under
the Supreme Court’s decision in UARG v. EPA. This is what Air District staff will be
evaluating going forward. The Air District could adopt such regulations, it just would not
be able to submit them to EAP for SIP approval.
Contrasting 350 Bay Area’s very narrow reading of the AB 398 preemption provision,
WSPA commented that AB 398 should be read very broadly to preempt Air District
regulation of all greenhouse gases, not just CO2. But this position is contrary to the clear
and express language of AB 398, which states that a local air district may not adopt an
“emission reduction rule for carbon dioxide” – not for any larger set of greenhouse gases.
If the Legislature intended to preempt regulation of other greenhouse gases besides CO 2,
it would have said so. Air District staff continue to maintain that the District retains the
authority to regulate non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions from sources subject to Cap
and Trade, and staff intend to continue evaluating whether any such regulations may be
appropriate as part of their further efforts under Regulation 2. There is nothing in the
language of the preemption provision to suggest that AB 398 restricts the Air District’s
authority in these areas.




                                             7
   B. Comments on Effectively Enforcing the Air District’s NSR Requirements for
      Changes in Refinery Crude Slates
A second area of comments concerned a proposal that Air District staff are developing to
enhance the District’s ability to enforce its New Source Review regulations when
petroleum refineries change their crude slates. This proposal would require refineries to
notify the Air District and obtain approval before making any significant change in crude
slate. This would give the Air District an opportunity to review the change and ensure that
the refinery is not making any modification in connection with the change that would
require a New Source Review permit – and to require that the refinery go through the
permitting process and obtain a permit if one is required. Air District staff published
proposed regulatory language to implement this requirement for the public workshops in
June of 2017, and a number of commenters submitted comments on it. Staff subsequently
concluded that further evaluation of the best way to implement this requirement is needed,
however, and so staff are not proposing final action at this point. Staff are proposing final
action at this time only on the technical and administrative amendments that need to be
adopted immediately in order to avoid the threat of sanctions by EPA for not having a fully
approved New Source Review program. But staff will continue to work on developing the
crude slate NSR enforcement provision and look forward to engaging with all interested
stakeholders in order to finalize a proposal for consideration by the Board of Directors.
WSPA commented that the Air District cannot go forward with the crude slate
enforcement proposal at all, stating that the District’s regulatory authority is limited to
regulating air emissions from refineries, not what kinds of crude oils refineries can
process. But the proposal is squarely a provision regulating air emissions, not a regulation
of what kinds of crude oils a refinery can process. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure
that the Air District can effectively implement and enforce its New Source Review rules,
which are indisputably emissions control rules. It would not restrict or specify what types
of crudes a refinery can process, it would require only that refineries submit information
regarding their crude slates and crude oil processing operations so that the Air District
can establish that they are complying with the applicable New Source Review rules. As
long as refineries comply with applicable New Source Review air pollution requirements,
they will remain free to process the crude slates that they deem most appropriate for their
particular operation (subject to compliance with all other applicable regulatory
requirements, of course).
WSPA also commented that there is no need for any regulatory revisions to ensure that
the Air District can adequately enforce its NSR requirements, because there is no
demonstrated connection between any changes in refinery crude slates and increases in
emissions that would be subject to NSR. Air District staff disagree with this comment, and
maintain that changes in crude slates can definitely lead to emissions increases in certain
situations – for example, if a refinery changes to a heavier or sourer crude source. Air
District staff are interested in evaluating the connection between the two in more detail,
however, which is part of the reason why staff are deferring final action on the crude slate


                                             8
provisions at this time. Air District staff look forward to working with WSPA and its
members, as well as other interested members of the public, in finalizing a regulatory
proposal for consideration by the Board of Directors.
WSPA also commented that the proposal to require pre-approval from the District before
making a significant change in crude slate would impermissibly “redefine the source” by
requiring refineries to construct or operate their equipment in a manner that is at odds
with the fundamental design and purpose for which the equipment was proposed. Air
District staff disagree. Requiring Air District pre-approval for a significant change in crude
slate as an “alteration” under Regulation 2-1-233 would not require a refinery to do
anything differently with respect to its equipment at all, let alone do anything that would
require it to change the equipment’s fundamental design and purpose. Moreover, to the
extent that a refinery has to make an NSR “modification” to its operations under
Regulation 2-1-234 in order to accommodate the change in crude slate, the “redefining
the source” doctrine referenced in the comment letter will be applicable to the NSR
permitting process and will ensure that the District does not “redefine the source” in the
manner WSPA says it is concerned about.
Finally, WSPA also commented that the Air District cannot take any enforcement action
with respect to a change in crude slate at a refinery absent some underlying basis in the
regulations. Air District staff agree with this comment as a general principle, but again
stress that the purpose and motivation for this entire initiative is to ensure that the existing
NSR regulations are enforced effectively. If a refinery needs to make a physical change
to or change in the method of operation of its equipment in order to accommodate new
crude slates, and that change increases emissions above the threshold levels set forth in
Regulation 2-1-234, that change is a “modification” and must go through the NSR
permitting process under Regulation 2-2. If Air District staff discover information
suggesting that a refinery has done so in connection with moving to a new crude slate
without getting an NSR permit, the Air District will take appropriate enforcement action
over the resulting violation of Regulation 2-2. As Air District staff made clear in the Staff
Report, such enforcement action would be action to enforce the existing provisions of
Regulation 2-2, not any attempt to regulate the refinery’s choice of crude slate or to
enforce some unwritten regulatory requirement that has not been adopted by the Board
of Directors.
By contrast, 350 Bay Area and related commenters suggested that any change in crude
slate is already subject to the Air District’s permit requirements in the manner that District
staff are contemplating. These commenters stated that any change in a refinery’s crude
slate constitutes a “physical change or change in the method of operations” of the refinery,
which is either a “modification” if the change increases emissions above the thresholds
stated in Regulation 2-1-234, or an “alteration” if it does not. This is not how the current
regulations apply, however, which is why Air District staff are working on revising them.
Specifically, facilities can switch to processing different types of feedstocks or raw
materials that they are designed and permitted to handle without it being a “physical


                                               9
change or change in the method of operation” under the regulations. Many facilities
process a range of different feedstocks and raw materials, reflecting the reality that many
industries experience natural fluctuations in the constituents or makeup of the raw
materials they use. If a facility is designed and permitted to handle a range of materials,
the facility can process materials within this range without having to get a permit revision;
processing one type of material does not lock the facility in to processing only that one
type of material going forward. This is how the New Source Review program has been
designed and implemented, both nationally and within the Bay Area. And this is the
reason why the Air District is proposing to change its regulations, so that facilities will be
required to get Air District pre-approval before changing their feedstocks, even though
such a change does not otherwise constitute a “physical change or change in the method
of operation” of the refinery.
350 Bay Area also suggested that in order to address concerns around crude slate
changes and the potential for emissions increases associated with them, the Air District
should require refineries to document their crude slate compositions, calculate emissions
based on their crude slate profile averaged over each month, and report those emissions
to the District. Air District staff agree that, in general, tracking and documenting crude
slate compositions and emissions appear to be the best approaches to addressing this
issue. Some of these suggestions are already incorporated into the Air District’s
Petroleum Refining Emissions Tracking rule, Regulation 12-15, and Air District staff will
be exploring how to implement them further in going forward with its proposal on
addressing crude slate changes under Regulation 2.
In addition, Charles Davidson stated that if refineries switch to processing significant
amounts of heavier or more sulfurous crude slates, they have the potential to implement
“modifications” with sufficient emissions increases to trigger the “Prevention of Significant
Deterioration” permitting requirements in Regulation 2-2. Air District staff agree with this
comment, which is part of the reason why staff have been working on this crude slate
enforcement proposal. Further information and analysis is required to ascertain the best
approach to implementing the proposal, however, as noted above. Air District staff look
forward to working with the commenter on these issues going forward.
   C. Comments on Existing Regulatory Provisions Requiring Facilities to Offset
      Emissions Associated With Cargo Deliveries
Finally, WSPA also commented on the Air District’s existing regulations that require
facilities to offset emissions associated with the cargo carriers that serve the facility (i.e.,
ships and trains that deliver raw materials or other products). WSPA stated that the Air
District lacks the legal authority to regulate these emissions and suggested that the
District should remove all such provisions from Regulation 2-2. WSPA said that these
offset requirements are preempted by the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination
Act with respect to emissions from railroad cargo carriers serving the facility, and are
preempted by Section 209 of the Clean Air Act with respect to emissions from ship cargo
carriers serving the facility.

                                              10
As Air District staff explained in response to similar comments at the workshop stage, the
District is not proposing any changes to any requirements of District regulations related
to offsetting a facility’s emissions increases resulting from cargo carriers. The District has
for many years required facilities to provide offsets for emissions from their cargo carriers
when they install a new source or modify an existing source. California’s other air districts
have done so for years as well. District staff are not proposing to change these
longstanding regulations in the proposed amendments.
Regarding the substance of WSPA’s comments about federal preemption, these
longstanding offset requirements do not attempt to regulate or manage rail or ship
operations, and so they do not implicate any preemption concerns. Rail carriers and
shipping operators are not subject to the offsets requirements themselves, and they
remain free to operate in whatever manner they find most appropriate, subject to
applicable regulatory requirements, regardless of the offset requirements. What the Air
District’s offset provisions do is require stationary-source facilities, which are indisputably
subject to Air District regulatory jurisdiction, to offset any criteria pollutant emissions
increases that will result when they install new sources or modify existing sources. If a
facility is going to increase emissions within the Bay Area as a result of such a new or
modified source – including increases that will result from cargo carriers serving the
source – then the District has the authority to require the facility to provide offsets for
those increased emissions. Doing so is important and necessary to ensure that the facility
is not causing any net emissions increase as a result of installing its new or modified
source, including cargo carrier emissions that occur as a direct result of the installation of
the source. This authority is well-settled under California air pollution law and is not
preempted by any federal laws or regulations, as demonstrated by the offsets provisions
that the Air District and its sister California air districts have been implementing for many
years without objection.




                                              11
