Procedure: A Method to Confirm that a Grandfathered Source at a
           Petroleum Refinery is Altered rather than Modified


Purpose       Provide a consistent standardized method to confirm that a grandfathered
              source is altered, rather than modified, without having to conduct a
              comprehensive debottlenecking analysis.


Procedure     Steos to ensure that a grandfathered source is altered.
                 Step           Who                                Action
                   1      Owner/Operator Determine the highest actual consecutive 24-
                                              hour throughput or firing rate demonstrated
                                              and documented in owner records
                  2       ,Owner/Operator Determine the highest actual consecutive 12-
                                              month throughput or firing rate demonstrated
                                              and documented in owner records
                  3       Owner/Operator      Incorporate Step I and 2 throughputs or
                                              firing rates into proposed permit conditions
                  4       Owner/Operator Provide the records and proposed permit
                                              conditions in a permit application
                  5       District            Process the complete permit application as
                                              an alteration, and impose permit conditions
                                              based upon the demonstrated daily and
                                              annual capacity



Principle     This procedure is based on the concept that over the operating life of the
              source there has been at least one period of time where the source has
              operated at its highest capacity, as limited by upstream or downstream
              bottlenecks. Limiting future operation to this demonstrated capacity is
              sufficient to ensure that a grandfathered source is not being debottlenecked,
              and therefore, is not modified.


Definitions   • A grandfathered source is an emissions source that was originally in
                service prior to March 7, 1979, and has not been modified since.
              • A grandfathered source with an emission increase due to debottlenecking is
                considered to be modified.
              • An altered source (aka an alteration) is when the owner/operator makes any
                physical change, or changes the method of operation, which may affect the
                emissions, but does not result in an emission increase. (If the change results
                in an increase in emissions, the source is a modified source.)

                                                                             Continued on next page
Procedure: A Method to Confirm that a Grandfathered Source at a
           Petroleum Refinery is Altered rather than Modified, Continued


Background      • This procedure documents the past practice of the Engineering Division to
and               address capacity limits associated with Regulation 2-1-234.3, grandfathered
Rationale         sources that have never been issued a District authority to construct.
                • The alteration of a grandfathered source usually occurs only if the change
                  does not increase the capacity of the source above the 2-1-234.3 .2
                  bottlenecked capacity.
                • The District has not performed a comprehensive review of the Regulation 2-
                  1-234.3 .2 bottlenecked capacity of refinery sources.
                • Applicants have proposed several methods to demonstrate that a
                  grandfathered source is altered. Determinations have been inconsistent.
                • This procedure is intended to ensure consistency for determining the
                  capacity of a source as limited by any bottlenecks.
                • This procedure allows the highest historical actual throughput or firing rate
                  to be used as the Regulation 2-1-234.3.2 bottlenecked capacity.



Exceptions or     Item                                 Description
Special             1      Grandfathered sources that were modified (as defined by
Circumstances              Regulation 2, Rule 1) after March 7, 1979 are not subject to this
                           policy providing all of the following are true:
                           • The modification was approved through a District permit
                             application,
                           • The District permit action included the evaluation of the
                             requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 2, and
                           • The engineering evaluation for the permit application clearly
                             details the following (pursuant to the requirements at the time
                             of the permit application):
                             - daily and annual emission impacts of the modification for all
                               criteria pollutants and
                             - hourly and annual emission impacts of the modification for
                               all toxic air contaminants.
                    2      There may be sources placed in service prior to 3/7179 that are
                           not grandfathered, and there will be situations where the
                           owner/operator will demonstrate that this is the case
                           Example -- a source was granted an authority to construct by
                           EPA between 1972 and 1979)
                    3      This policy does not prevent the owner/operator from performing
                           a comprehensive facility operation study that demonstrates the
                           source capacity limited by upstream and downstream
                           bottlenecks.

                                                                            Continued on next page
Procedure: A Method to Confirm that a Grandfathered Source at a
           Petroleum Refinery is Altered rather than Modified, Continued


Contact     Refinery Workgroup:
            Arthur Valla - Extension 5184 Brian Lusher - Extension 4623
            Thu Bui - Extension 5119      Nicholas Maiden - Extension 4718
            Bbagavan Krislmaswamy -Extension 4637


Approved    Jim Karas P.E.


      --r-
         ( -:?c-- ~
            Director of ngineering                        Date
