Audio ﬁle
baha_ce82a8ba-f3da-487c-a730-ff7197521fc1.mp3


Transcript
Alright folks, it's 9:00. I want to get started just in one minute here so folks can take their seats. Start
in 60 seconds. We have a lot to get through. I want to make sure we're on time, so we get here on
time.

OK.

I think actually having said that, Jamie. Williams, the head of the engineering division, is apparently
going to come down. He is. Give us an introduction. So actually right on time. Jamie, come on. Did
you want to have a quick introduction? What's that? We have a lot to get through and we said we'd
be. By noon. So I want to make sure we. Get started and get through.

Yes, I just wanted to welcome everybody. My name is Jamie Williams, director of engineering here at
the Air District. As Sandy said, we have a lot of material to go through. We've tried to condense it all
and sort of. Three hours, which is probably not enough time, but we are again webcasting and said
he will have more details. And we'll be recording. So if you want to come back and review some
portions. This training we've had all of our staff, engineering staff sit through, so I've gotten the
same materials, same information you have and we'll continue to sort of work through
implementation of all this new information. I just wanted to say thank you again. And I'll hand it over
to Sandy and we'll get started.

Well, thank you, Jamie, and thank you everybody for being here and welcome. My name is Sandy
Crockett. I'm assistant counsel legal. I was a legal division staff lead for these changes to our new
source review regulations that we did in 2012 along with Pam Liang and Greg Stone, who are the
Engineering division staff leads. So I have the privilege and the honor of giving you this. We are going
to go through today all of the things that we have changed in our NSR rule in 2012. These new rules
came effective August 31st, 2016, which is why we're doing this training session right now. And in
thinking about how we were going to set up the presentation, because we changed a lot of different
things instead of sort of going through one by one, what the elements of the changes were. We
thought it'd be better to go through the evaluation process that you would go through if you were
looking at a NSR permitting project step by step. We'll start with. I've got some introductory things
to go through ﬁrst, but then we'll start with the applicability questions. Is your project subject NSR
in the ﬁrst place? And then if it is, you go through. Section by section. What the substantive
requirements of the district's NSR program in regards to R and if we go through it that way, go
through substantive section by section. Section as we go through will pull in things like deﬁnitions
and exemptions and calculation procedures and. So I think we will cover the waterfront of what all
the changes are in kind of more of a logical way because that's the way you're going to be using
these regulations going forward is you have a project and you'll be needing to go through ﬁguring out
are. Subject And then what do you need to do if you are subject to MSR? So that's the sort of layout.
I've got some background information. First of all about you know what led to all of this new change.
Then I've got some foundational concepts I want to go over, which kind of underlay and come into
every single part of what the presentation is going to be. We'll get those out of the way, then we'll
talk about the applicability questions. You a newer modiﬁed. Because that's what NSR applies to.
And then we'll just go through the substantive sections of Reg. One by one, these are in the 300
sections of Reg. Istrar 0122302 etc. Just walk through them 1 by 1. You can also if you want to look
at the new version of Reg Q2 in this booklet that we have here. This is a manual that we put together
that goes through in much more detail than I'm going to be able to get to in three hours today about
what? This stuff is all. It's also got a lot of citations to speciﬁc regulatory. So you'll see sort of
general discussion in the text and then if you want to know more. Exactly where the rule comes
from. It'll give you an endnote. You can turn to the Endnote and ﬁnd out exactly what the regulatory
provision or the court case where. Guidance document or whatever that gives you the substance of
the rule. So you can follow along if you want to. We have Reg 21 and two, two at the tabs at the back
and if you look at the beginning of 22, you will see the 300 section with all of these various different
provisions that we're going to go through here. So going through the rest of the two 2-3 hundred
section and then there's a couple of miscellaneous things that don't logically fall into the outline
will hit them at the end and then hopefully we'll end up with a little bit of time for questions at the
end. I will tell you this is an awful lot of material to go through. Three hours might seem like a long
time, but it's actually not very long when you think about all the things that we have. So this is
necessarily going to be kind of a high level? Discussion. As I said, there's a lot more detail here that
you can have a look at. We also have the staff report for the 2000 amendments, which also might be
a useful resource guide for you. Is on the website, so you can look at it. There, this booklet kind of
goes through the program, the new program and just goes through step by step what the new
program is all about. This document is more focused on what the changes were from the old
program to the new program. If you want to know why a particular change was made. You'll ﬁnd the
answer here. This booklet will tell you, you know in detail what the new rule is all about. And then at
your places you should also have an outline presentation outline just A2, pager and so you can
follow along exactly where we are in the discussion. If you you know not offer a little bit here on a
Friday morning and you wake back up you. Exactly where we are and I also I highlighted on the
outline what some of the most important concepts are. Those are the places really to make sure
that you're focusing. All right. I want to kick off with a little bit of history about how we got to this
point with the 2012 amendments that became effective recently. Let me start with a very brief
background on the regulatory framework. You guys probably know a lot of this, but under the Clean
Air Act, EPA establishes National ambient air quality standards. The nax, which are basic standards
that are supposed to be met in every region throughout the. And then it's up to each state or local
region like ours to come up with a plan, a sip that is designed to attain and maintain those necks.
Two elements to. One is a planning element where the folks on the 7th ﬂoor in our division of
planners try to look at all the existing sources of air pollutants. To ﬁgure out ways to come up with
new technologies or retroﬁtting. Reduce emissions to try to get us back. Entertainment. And then
the other element is NSR new source review, which focuses on new and modiﬁed. Because we
don't want to have emissions growth from new and modiﬁed sources, that undermines all that good
work that the planning folks are doing to try to reduce emissions from existing our existing inventory.
And that's what we're going to talk about today. The new NSR rules that we have in regards to
elements to NSR, depending on what pollutant you're looking at, whether it's a pollutant for which
we are non attainment, where we need to be a little bit more stringent. Or a attainment pollutant
where we have a little bit more leeway because we can allow some emissions growth before we get
out of attainment. But we don't want to be too careless there, because if you let growth go Willy
nilly, you'll ﬁnd yourself in a non attainment situation. That's not. So we have what we call
prevention of signiﬁcant deterioration. Or PSD and the idea is there is you can have a little bit of
emissions growth, but you don't want to have the air quality deteriorate so much that you fall out of
attainment and ﬁnd yourself in a non attainment situation. That's the basic regulatory framework
under federal law. California thought that new source review was such a good idea that we should
adopt our own additional bells and whistles onto the new source review concept. So California law
has some additional things that we need to do. Obligations on us for our NSR program and then of
course the district you know, has ideas about what it wants to do. It's got its own regulatory agenda
as well. It gets added into the mix. So those are all of the sort of requirements that feed into how we
put together. Whether our MSR program. And back in 2000, 2010, 2011 time frame, we looked at
this framework and realized that it was high time to do some major updates to the NSR program.
I've listed some of the factors that went into those decisions here on this slide ﬁrst. Foremost
among them was we were designated as non attainment for the new PM. So because we're non
attainment, we've got to put in non attainment NSR requirements in our NSR rule backed offsets
that kind of thing which we did and we'll talk about those in a little. EPA also changed the way it
deﬁnes particulate matter, and it said that we need to include the condensible portion of
particulate matter in our regulations, particular matter emissions. Some of what comes out of the
stack is in solid particulate form, and you could put a ﬁlter in there. Catch. The the the particles in
your ﬁlter. They call that the ﬁlterable portion of particulate emissions. Some of what comes out is
in gaseous form. When it exits the stack, but then when it goes out of the stack and it cools down,
when it gets down to ambient temperatures it may condense into particulate matter. We call that
the condensible portion. Historically, EPA has never deﬁned, we've never deﬁned how you measure
or evaluate particulate matter, and so the default was people were just looking at the ﬁlterable
portion and that's the way we did most of our historical NSR. Permitting was looking just at the
ﬁlterable portion EP. Now you've got to start including the condensible portion as well in all cases,
and so we've changed our program so that it addresses. Well, with respect to the PSD portion of
NSR, this is the part that applies to attainment pollutants. We never had our own district approved
NSR program in district regulations for historical reasons. We always just were implementing the
federal program, the federal rules. We had a delegation agreement which meant that we. Our
agency were the ones who were actually were doing the analysis and writing the permit conditions,
but we were using the federal program and it kind of led to a bunch of problems because the district
rules applied in some ways, federal rules applied in other ways that we. Using and it led to a lot of.
We realized that what we needed to do was to write PSD rules in regards to two. We could have our
own PSD program and get that approved by EPA. And so we have done that and we'll talk about that
in a lot of detail here today. And then we had a couple of other things that the district had been
thinking that it wanted to do with its NSR program. Among them, we wanted to lower the thresholds
for notice and comment and we will talk about that going forward. If you have ansr permit. We will
now be having to do notice and comment at a lower emissions threshold. And we'll talk about that.
We created this new requirement called the nax protection requirement, which is a requirement
that you have to do an analysis of what your project's impacts will be on ambient air
concentrations. Pollutant concentrations in the ambient air to make sure that your project is not. To
push. Us over the next for any pollutant. If you're familiar with PSD, this is a very similar concept to
what you do under PSD permitting because PSD says you got to make sure that you're not going to
throw yourself out of attainment of the next. This requirement is a little bit broader and we'll talk
about how it's the thresholds for doing this are a little bit lower, but this is something new that has
been added to district regulations and we'll talk about that as well. And then some other minor
miscellaneous revisions will pick up along the way. And then we also realized, as we were doing
this, that there was a bunch of places in which the district's regulations, the language, was a little
bit opaque or unclear or could be written. Better. And so we've done that. And then we also were
realizing, you know, we're making such huge revisions to a lot of this stuff. We've got this whole
regulation. Why don't we just overhaul it top to? So we did some reorganization and changed some
things around. As a result, this regulation, the new 22 is going to look very different to you if you're
familiar with the old one, it's going to look very different some ways. Are substantive changes and
we will talk today about where there are substantive changes, real differences in the way the
program works. Other things are only changes in appearance. The way it's organized, the way it's
written, these are not substantive changes, and we'll talk about those as well. And I want to make
sure you all understand that when you see a different regulatory structure or language that you
understand is. A substantive difference? Or is this just a rewriting to make the language more clear?
Organization. Finally, when we went through the process, EPA found some things that it thought that
we weren't doing. Some of these things that are aspects of our program that had been in place for
years that EPA never had a problem with. Then they told us now we have to do things differently. The
chief among these is a new what we call the federal backstop applicability test. EPA looked at our at
our existing modiﬁcation. Modiﬁcation tests for when you become a modiﬁcation subject to. And
they said, well, wait a second. We don't quite like that. There may be some cases in which your
current modiﬁcation test doesn't pick up some things that would be modiﬁcations under the
federal program. It's kind of a not very likely, but EPA. It's a possibility they made us put in this what
we call the federal backstop, and we'll talk about this in detail. But essentially it says you look at our
modiﬁcation deﬁnition, if you're not a modiﬁcation under our test, well, would you be picked up
under the federal test? And if so, then you have to be brought into our program as well. And that was
to satisfy EPA's concern that. Area where something could slip through our test and get caught up
by the federal test. That's what this does. It's the federal backstop because it's like a backstop that if
anything slips through the district test, it'll get picked up. If it's a federal major modiﬁcation. And
then we have a couple of revision we did to our Title 5 program. Not the focus of today, but we'll hit
on those brieﬂy at the end. The amendments took effect on August 31st, 2006. Made the
amendments in 2012. But we wanted to avoid this problem. We call the sip gap, which is if we
adopt our new regulatory program and it's effective under state law immediately, well, it's not going
to be effective for federal enforceability purposes until EPA. Proves it, which leaves a regulated
community in a bit of a bind, because under state law you got to follow one set of rules. But under
federal law, you're still subject to the old set of rules. So to avoid that we had our Board of directors
adopt the. With a future effective date of whenever EPA got around to approving them federally. That
happened on August 31st, 2016. So that's when under state law and federal law, the new changes
took effect. Any applications that came in and were complete before August 31st, 2016 will be
continued to be processed under the old rules and we have a regulation that speciﬁes that it's the
regulations in effect when your application is complete that govern that application throughout the
process. Any applications that are new that come in are complete after August 31. Those will be
subject to the new rules. The two six revisions that I'm going to talk about at the end of the
presentation haven't taken effect yet, but we're hoping EPA is going to get around to approving them
soon. And then ﬁnally, we're going to be continuing to go through this process. The approval had a
couple of what EPA called deﬁciency items. So keep your eye on all this stuff, because this program
constantly evolves. We do have some things that we're going to be changing and so things will
continue to come down the pipe on all of that. All right. So with those background remarks out of
the way, let me ﬁrst hit on a couple of foundational concepts that are going to underlie everything
that we are talking about today and then we'll get into the substance of the presentation. First of all,
as I mentioned, we. Now going to have to be including the condensible portion of your particulate
matter emissions in all cases. Before sometimes it was included. I think most, if not almost all
cases, we only were looking at the ﬁlterable portion. Now we are going to be looking at the
condensible portion as well in all cases. We never regulated pm 2.5 before, so we had to put in a
new deﬁnition of PM 2.5, and that makes clear that you include the condensible portion. We also
change the deﬁnition of PM10 in the same way to make it clear that you include the condensable
portion, and then we put in some test methods and so forth. Are the standard test methods for you
to look. When you're when you're doing a source test, or when you're measuring particulate matter
emissions to look at the ﬁlterable. And the condensible portion as well. That part is pretty simple,
but you can get some interesting wrinkles when you look at the transition between the old regime,
which was just ﬁlterable, and the new regime. So we wanted to put in some provisions that are
going to govern how this happens without too much of A hassle. The basic concept is we always
want to have an apples to apples comparison. You never want to have you know if you have some
sort of comparison that crosses this divide. If you're looking now under the new regime, you want to
be using the same approach. If you're looking at something that happened in the past under the old
regime and you're comparing them, for example, what happens if you have an emissions limit that
was established in the old? And it was established just contemplating. Filterable particulate matter.
Well, now you're going to have to comply with it going forward. What's going to happen when you do
your source test to compare with? The emissions limit is we want to make clear that if the limit was
established. Based only on Filterable, you will continue to use only ﬁlterable to determine
compliance with that limit going forward, and we put in a provision spec. We also want to make
clear that we're not going to reopen any past applicability determinations. For example, if you had a
modiﬁcation in the past and you had a PM emissions increase and you had to give offsets for that
increase and the amount of offsets that you had. To give was measured based just on the. We're not
going to go back and say, you know what? We're now looking at Condensible as well. You now owe
extra offsets for that. So anything that happened in the past, any determinations in the past are
closed and? Done. Any determinations going forward are going to have to include the the
CONDENSIBLE portion as well, which may mean you may have, you know, a facility that used to be
below some threshold. Now it's going to be above some threshold. May. You may have had 90 tons
of PM10 in the past. You were not a major facility. Include your. It may put you over. 100. So now you
may be a major. And then we also put in some provisions for converting PM10 banked credits. If you
have pm 10 credits in the bank and those credits were based only on the ﬁlterable portion, well,
there's a mechanism that you can come in and have the condensible portion assessed as well. If
you have information about the reduction that created that bank credit and from that information
we can look at the reduction we can come up with a conversion factor. Says hey, if this is the type of
mission you had, you know you probably had this proportion of condensible emissions, if we know
what your ﬁlterable was, we can do that conversion. We can give you the Condensable credit as
well. And the same concept for PM10 cred. If we can ﬁgure out, well, this is what the fraction of PM
2.5 would have been in that PM10 reduction, we can give you PM 2.5 credit for that going forward.
And so we put some provisions in our. Rule for that. The next foundational concept I want to talk
about is how we are regulating greenhouse gases. And we are incorporating the federal approach.
The basic thing to take away from this is that greenhouse gases are only subject to regulation under
any of this. If they are emitted at a facility that is a major facility for some other regulated pollutant.
Your facility has to be over the 100 or 250 ton major facility threshold. Talk about those thresholds in
a minute. For some other pollutant besides greenhouse gases. So your greenhouse gases can't
bring you into this. Into NSR just by themselves. You have to be over the major facility for some
other pollutant, and then you also have to have an emissions increase from the project. That you're
applying for of 75,000 tons. CO2 E or. So that's that is the take away from this in the third bullet
point there, your greenhouse gases can't get you into NSR by themselves. You have to be a major
facility for some. Other regulated pollutant. And then if you are. Your greenhouse gases come into it,
and if you're over 75,000 ton increase in greenhouse gases, your greenhouse gases can be subject
to NSR as well. The top two bullets are kind of a legal way in the deﬁnitions you get into this federal
NSR applies to. Regulated NSR pollutants as deﬁned. Regulated NSR pollutants are pollutants that
are subject to regulation and subject to regulation is deﬁned with respect to greenhouse gases. To
incorporate these tests, you've got to be major for some other pollutant in order for greenhouse
gases even to come into any of this. Next fundamental concept to talk about is how we do the
calculation of how much of an emissions increase or decrease you have, which is very important
because if you have some threshold, you know whether you're over that threshold is going to
depend on how you measure your incre. Or decrease. There's a couple different ways. To to
approach how you calculate an emissions increase or decrease the district's fundamental basic
default rule has always been actual to potential you look at your actual emissions before you make
a change. And then after you make the change, what is your maximum potential emissions going to
be? If you run all the way up to your permit limit? That's how we have always as our default rule.
Measured emissions increases baseline actual to future potential maximum emissions, and that's
for increases. The same concept works for decreases as well. If you are going to have a reduction.
You look at your actual emissions before you make the reduction, and then you look at your
potential emissions after you put the reduction into effect. If you're removing something, a lot of
reductions are shutdowns. If you're going to shut something down and take it out of service. Well,
by deﬁnition, your potential emissions are 0. At that point. You can't emit anything. So you get the
reduction as measured as the full amount down from your actual emissions baseline, but
sometimes you have a reduction. Is you take a lower permit. And in that case you were looking at
your permit limit as your new potential emissions. We give you credit for your actual emissions
baseline down to whatever your maximum permanent emissions are. You may not ever actually
emit up to that permanent amount, but that's what we use in the actual potential calculation
methodology. That's how we used to do it, and it was in our old regulation 22604, which talked
about increases in 2260. Which talked about decreases, but there was a little bit of opaque and
confusing language there. So we have rewritten it to specify. Clearly, how you go through this
process and it's a new 2260. Three, which we'll talk about in a second, which talks about how you
establish your baseline and then 22604 says once you have that baseline, the the amount of the
increase or decrease is based on actual to potential. All. And we'll come back to this concept a
bunch as we go through this. Actual to potential 22603 and 22604 in the new regulations. I am going
to go through those two regulations in more detail in a second, but before we do, let me just hit on
the other concepts for calculating emissions increases and decreases we have. Floating out there.
One of them is actual to. This is not your baseline actual. And then what is your maximum missions
after the? It's what your projected actual emissions are going to be at the chain after the change,
which will always be a little bit less than your potential emissions, because you don't usually ever
operate up to your full maximum permanent emissions level. This is sometimes called NSR reform
approach because in 2002 EPA revised its whole approach to NSR in what was called NSR reform.
And so the federal approach is this actual to future actual. Approach and sometimes I will talk
about it as we go through this by the shorthand term NSR reform. That's what I mean. Actual to
future. This comes up primarily in the federal backstop applicability test that we're going to talk
about in a minute. And then there's also the potential to potential test, which doesn't look at actual
emissions at all. Your potential before your potential afterwards.

A.

Couple of places where this will come up as well. Now I just want to talk about some of the details
about the district default test. Actual to potential because this is. The concept is you look at your
actual emissions during a baseline period. Then you have to apply what we call this surplus
adjustment if what you emitted during your baseline period was more than what would be allowed
under current regulations, we're not going to give you the beneﬁt of having additional emissions. We
will adjust your baseline emissions downward. To reﬂect current regulatory standards, we call that
the surplus adjustment because we're. Talking about, you know, whatever was surplus of the what
the current regulations are, some people have always called it the racked adjustment because the
regulations, some of the primary adjustments that you need to make some of the primary
regulations that drive the adjustment are racked rules, reasonable avail. Technology. But really
there's any. There, that's in effect that could drive this. It could be a bark. It could be some
regulation in a district clean airplane or something like that. So really it's kind of more accurate and
comprehensive to call this the surplus. Adjustment. The idea is that we're only going to give you
credit for reductions that are surplus of what is required by the regulations that are on the books at
the time of the increase or the. Once you have your baseline, then you compare it to your actual. To
your future Pte going forward, that's the concept. So we have 22603 and 22604 that govern this. This
is what 22603 looks like on a page, although there's a lot of text here that I took out. So just to give
you the the sort of the. The high level conceptual view of this, but you can see it if you turn it two to
603. You'll see the detail. It says that this is the way you calculate your baseline emissions and then
it gives you boom boom, boom, step by step the way. Go through this. So let's go through step by
step how this all. The ﬁrst thing you need to do is establish the baseline period, which is the period
of time during which you're going to look at your actual emissions baseline. If we're and there's a
couple different scenarios about how this happens and for the different scenarios, we will be ﬁrst
establishing the baseline period ending date. That's the the point in time from which your baseline
period is going to be measured. And then we'll look back however many years before that baseline
period ending date, and that will be your baseline period. The default rule is three years that will be
familiar to you. What our rule has been for some. There's also a special rule for greenhouse gases
that we'll talk about in a minute. But the ﬁrst thing to do is to ﬁgure out what your baseline period
ending date is. And there's a couple different scenarios for this. The ﬁrst, the main scenario will be
what happens if you have a new project that's coming in to be permitted, and you're trying to ﬁgure
out what the emissions increase is from that project you're applying for right now. For that scenario,
it's the date of the complete applic. So you'll be looking to measure the increase from that permit
application? It'll be three years back from the date of the complete permit application. What about
if you're looking at contemporaneous on site emission reduction credits? If you're calculating the
amount of your cumulative increase? What about if you're doing netting that kind of thing? This is
where you're looking at some reduction that may have happened at your facility. Back a few years
ago. Well, in that scenario you look at when the point in time. When you put that reduction in into
effect, when that reduction was implemented. Or for. Sometimes we're going to look at emissions
increases, so it's when that increase was implemented. And then you look three years back from
that point in time to determine the amount of the emissions increase from that prior increase or
decrease from that prior change that increased or decreased emissions. And then we also have the
emissions banking scenario and for the banking scenario, it's the date of the complete banking
application and you look three years back for the date of complete banking application. And as I
mentioned, the general rule for the baseline period is three years, so. You ﬁgure out when the
baseline period ends. It's three years back from that. Or there's a special rule for greenhouse gases
we'll talk about in a minute. So that's how you ﬁgure baseline period. Now you need to ﬁgure out
what your emissions are during the baseline period. And then apply this surplus adjustment that we
talked about before you take your baseline period and you look at what your missions were during
that and come up with a baseline emissions rate, an average rate during that period, which is your
baseline emissions during that period. Divided by your throughput during that period and that gives
you an emissions rate in emissions per unit of throughput. That is your baseline emissions rate from
that baseline period. From that rate, you then do the surplus adjustment. You look at what the
current regulations are on the books. And you say if we had to have been complying with those
regulations during this baseline period, what would our emissions rate have looked like in terms of
emissions per unit of throughput under current regulations? And that gives you your adjusted
baseline emissions rate adjusted to reﬂect current Reg? Once you have that adjusted baseline
emissions rate, you then multiply it by your throughput during the baseline period, and that
multiplies it back up into tons per year of emissions. An overall baseline emissions that you
calculate back up from that adjusted rate. And that gives you your adjusted baseline emissions in
tons per year. That's your adjusted baseline emissions and then you have to compare that to your
new Pte going forward. To get the actual to projected actual emissions. So 603 talks about how to
do the. The baseline calculations and the adjusted baseline calculations and then 604 says. You do
actual potential or in the case of a new source, you don't have any actual emissions before it was
built. It speciﬁes for a new source your emissions increase is just the full Pte of that new source.
And it speciﬁes for modiﬁcations. You use the adjusted baseline emissions that you've calculated.
And then you look at the difference up to the new Pte going forward. And as I said, this applies for
increases and decreases equally. For an increase, it's the new. Going up to the new Pte going
forward for a reduction, it's going down to the new Pte going forward, which could be 0 if it's a
shutdown or it could be something more than 0. Permanent emissions rate. If you're taking a lower
permit limit to give you that emission reduction. So that's 22603 at 2:00. 60. The the methodologies
and we'll come back to this over and over again as we go through this, which is why I wanted to get it
out of the way beforehand. The ﬁnal foundational concept. Want to talk about is what we're doing
about fugitives. As before, the general rule is that fugitive emissions emissions that don't come
from, you know, a stack or an intended emissions point, but might leak out from valves and ﬂanges.
And that kind of thing. Call those fugitive emissions. Those are generally included in all cases, with
some exceptions. And the exceptions are listed there. What we have done is created this new
provision in 22611 which speciﬁes this exactly. Says your general rule is include them except for
these exceptions. Boom. Boom. Before we just had a rule in 21308 which said include your
fugitives, which wasn't exactly clear and correct because there were exceptions. Kind of exceptions
to that rule. We've changed 21308 to say fugitives are included where required by the regulations.
And we put in 22611, which says fugitives are always included except for. These exceptions, and I've
listed them there, so you'll see that in 2261. All right, those are the basic foundational concepts.
Now I want to let me just do a QuickTime check here. Not doing too badly. Now I want to talk, as I
said before, we'll go through the NSR evaluation process and as we go through it this way, you'll sort
of see where the changes are. And I think it help you understand, you know, kind of at this high
conceptual level about how. This stuff is working. Under our new. So the ﬁrst thing to talk about we
do that is applicability of new source review. Which comes down to new and modiﬁed sources. If
you look at all the substantive requirements in two, two in the 300 section. They all say. If you're a
newer, modiﬁed source, you have to do backtracking if you're. Source you have to do. So the
deﬁnition of new source and modiﬁed source. Are the key. Applicability concepts for NSR because
it all comes down to whether you fall within this deﬁnition, in which case you have to do NSR or
whether you don't fall within these deﬁnitions, in which case you don't have. Do nsr. We didn't really
make any changes to the new source deﬁnition. Going to spend much time on that. We did make
big changes on 2221234. The modiﬁed source deﬁnition, and so I will spend a lot of time talking
about that. As I mentioned before, we have the old district test and then we had to put in this new
federal backstop test to satisfy EPA's concerns about this. We split those into two. So now they
modiﬁed the source deﬁnition. Has these two branches to it. The ﬁrst one is the district's existing
test. We didn't make any substantive changes to that test, but we revised. A. We'll talk about that.
We did put in this new federal backstop test, which is all New South. We're going to talk about that
as. And then if we have a little bit of time at the end of this section, I also want to talk about altered
sources alterations which are not subject to NSR. Not new and modiﬁed sources, but it's an
important concept that applies to projects that don't trigger NSR applicability. New source
deﬁnition is in 21232. It's pretty simple concept. If you weren't in existence before, then you're a
new. There's some details here you can look at the regulation the I think the details are pretty
straightforward, so I'm really not going to get into this. If you have questions, we can talk about it
later. Modiﬁed source. This is where all the important stuff is for NSR applicability. Modiﬁed source
under 21234. Is some kind of change at the facility a physical change or change in the method of
operation that? Increases your emissions under either of these two applicability tests we have now.
The existing district test is the same as it was before. An increase in potential to. That's the way the
district test has always worked. Or an increase that is a federal major modiﬁcation under the
federal NSR program. That's what we call the federal backstop, because the idea is that if you don't
get caught up in the district modiﬁcation test. To satisfy EPA's concerns, look at the federal program
and see if you get caught up in the federal program. And that's where the actual to future actually
NSR reform test comes in. Because that's how the federal program works. This is what it looks like
on the. And again, sorry on the page, if you look at. And again, I've kind of excluded some of the
details here just to show you in one snapshot what it looks like. The deﬁnition says modiﬁcation is
when you make a physical change or change in the method of operation or change in throughput or
production or other similar change. Capture that. Got to be making a change at your source. That it
causes an emissions. That triggers either one of these two things, and there you see the two tests,
the district historical test, which is increase in potential to emit, or the federal backstop test, which
is are you a major modiﬁcation as deﬁned in the federal program? So let's talk about the two. The
ﬁrst Test is the district's historical test, which never said in the past an increase in Pte. But that's
what it was. It said, are you going to increase your permit limit, which is a Pte concept, right? You
have a permit limit. The most you possibly can admit your maximum potential emissions is up to
your permit limit. And then it said if you don't have a permit limit, what is your actual emissions with
all these different ways of ﬁguring out? Sorry, what is your? What is your actual physical? You
possibly could physically get out of your source if you run in 24 hours a day like the design capacity
or the most you possibly could admit from it, and that is also a PT concept because if you don't
have a permit limit, what is your P? The maximum you possibly could emit if you ran the thing 24/7.
At its maximum emission. Rate. So it really was a pity concept, but it just had all his language in
there that could be simpliﬁed so much by saying. Are you increasing your potential to emit and so
that's what that's what the new deﬁnition says in much more simple terms. Now there was a lot of
other language in there that kind of speciﬁed how this was going to work and we didn't want to take
that out in part because we didn't want people to think that. You know those approaches for ﬁguring
out what Pte means? We're not applicable anymore. I mean, they are part and parcel of the concept
of Pte, so they're implicit in this. But we didn't want to take out that language because we didn't
want people to think that, you know, all that. All those concepts don't apply to Pte. And it's just, it's
helpful in ﬁguring out this concept to have some details ﬂeshed out. So if you look, you'll see a
bunch of other language in there. Just going to quickly highlight what some of that language says. If
you don't have an emissions limit to deﬁne your Pte, but you have a surrogate limit like an operating
parameters throughput or something like that, and that establishes what your maximum emissions
will be, that can determine what your PT is. So an increase in those permit conditions would be an
increase in Pte. You can use your short term Pte to establish longer. Use short term emission limits
to establish longer term Pte. For example, if you have a an hourly emissions limit. You could
multiply that by 24 to get a daily emissions limit. If you can run 24 hours a day. You know, there's no
way if you comply with every hourly limit during every hour, you could go over the 24 times your
hourly limit in a day. Some groups of emission sources have a limit that applies to the entire group
or a bubble limit is sometimes called. Those generally will not establish PT for an individual source
under that bubble, because there's no way to tell you know which source within that group is going
to. Higher or lower to keep everything under the bubble. If you have a grandfather source, what we
call a grandfather's source because it doesn't have a permit limit, it's never been through NSR, so it
doesn't have an emissions limit. Well, in that case you have to look at what your maximum physical
emissions could possibly be if you ran the thing and its maximum theoretically possible emissions
rate or production rate that it could actually achieve, that is going to be your PT E If you don't have
an. Limit. It may be difficult if this is some historical thing that was built decades ago. It may be
difficult to ﬁgure out what that maximum capacity is for grandfathered source. You have to use the
best emission. Have to use the best information that's out there and it's sort of a case by case
basis, but whatever is the best technical information, that's what's going to be used to determine
your maximum EM. In a grandfathered source context. Sometimes you have a permit limit, but
because of the way your facility is set up, you can't operate up to that emissions limit because
maybe there's an upstream. Source that an upstream unit that gives you feedstock for your unit and
you can't get enough feedstock out of that upstream unit to operate at your maximum capacity. We
called it a bottleneck. It's a bottleneck in the production train. And so in that case, your maximum
Pte for the bottleneck. Umm, source is going to be. However much is the maximum can run. Given
the bottleneck, that's. So if there's a limitation from something upstream of how much feedstock is
coming in that bottleneck will establish your pipe. If you take away that bottleneck, IE by increasing
the capacity of the upstream unit. Now you can get more feedstock to the source you're talking
about. That is removing a bottleneck and that could increase the Pte of. Unit that was bottlenecked
before we call that debottlenecking. So I could spend 3 hours talking about just that. So we're going
to pass over the concept pretty quickly, but we've included that in 221234 to make it clear that
debottlenecking can increase your PT if you have that bottleneck. And then ﬁnally, fugitives are
always. That's the general concept that fugitives are generally included, except for the exemptions,
and there isn't one for this. So that's the detail that you'll see in a lot of that text in 21234.1, the
district modiﬁcation test. There's a special rule for toxics, and this mirrors the old rule. We didn't
make any substantive changes here. You have to have an increase in your Pte that increases toxic
risk from the toxics above these thresholds that are speciﬁed there. For carcinogens, it's one in a
million. For non carcinogenic risk, it's a hazard index increase of 0.2. So that means you know,
ﬁguring out what the risk is, you kind of have to do a risk assessment. Have to ﬁgure out where your
receptors are and you have to do modeling of how it's going to impact them and all that kind of stuff.
There are screening thresholds in regards to ﬁve and if you are below those screening thresholds,
that's just a limit on threshold for the amount coming out of your. Back if you are below those, you
don't have to worry about the risk assessment. We assume that you are going to be below the risk
threshold just based on the amount coming out of your stack. If you're above those screening
thresholds, you may have to do a risk assessment at the front end to determine whether you're
triggering NSR at all. Because you need to ﬁgure out where your receptors are to ﬁgure out do this
modeling analysis to ﬁgure out what your risk is going to be. All right, that's the historical district.
We're going to move on now to the federal backstop test, and this is in 234.2, and I've shown it up
on the screen. Is an increase that would be a major modiﬁcation under the federal deﬁnitions. Now,
there's actually two federal deﬁnitions in play here, depending on what kind of pollutant we have.
We have a non attainment pollutant. We're talking about the deﬁnition in EPA's non attainment NSR
regulations here in one 6051 point. 65. For the attainment pollutants, all the other regulated NSR
pollutants, they are subject to EPA's PSD regulations. In 51.166. So for these 4 pollutants which are
non attainment pollutants and precursors, you're looking at this test for all the other pollutants
you're looking at this test. Thankfully, the tests are very similar. We'll. But those are the tests you
apply, and there's other language in there that says in applying those tests from the federal
regulations, you use all of the other provisions in those federal regulations that are relevant to
applying these tests. Deﬁnitions and calculation methodologies. Everything that goes into EPA
applying these tests, that's what you're going to use to apply these tests. Because remember the
concept. You know, we're just looking at whether EPA would treat this as an Sr. modiﬁcation. And if
so, then we have to bring it into our program. Under the federal backst. Now there's three basic
elements under both of the different major modiﬁcation deﬁnitions. For non attainment pollutants
and for attainment pollutants, these are the three basic elements and if you walk out of here not
remembering any details about this. If you remember the three elements, I feel like you will have
gotten sort of the basic stuff out of the. Present. Today, the ﬁrst one is you have to be at a major
facility. Your facility has to be over the major facility thresholds in the federal rules which are 100
tons or 250 tons per year. Talk about those in a second. The second one is if you're at a major
facility, you have to be over. The signiﬁcant increase thresholds your project has to cause a
signiﬁcant increase in emissions. In order for you to get into NSR, we'll talk about that element in a
second and then the third one is if you have. Signiﬁcant increase. From your project, you look to see
whether you have a signiﬁcant net increase taking into account. Other recent decreases and
increases at the facility. So that's a way to get out of NSR even if you have a signiﬁcant increase. You
could do this netting approach. And then as I said, we incorporate these different rules from 165 for
non attainment pollutants and 166 for attainment pollutants. All. Going to go through as quickly as I
can, the three elements here, the ﬁrst element, the major facility threshold, you have to be at a
major facility in order to trigger the federal backstop test. For non attainment pollutants. The
threshold is 100 tons per year. For all other regulated pollutants, the threshold depends on what
type of facility you. There's 28 categories that are listed in the NSR rules, and if you're in one of
those 28 categories then it's 100 times per year. If you're not. If you're not in a listed category, it's
250 times per year, and that's Pte you. At all the sources at your facility. What's the maximum Pte
and if it's over a hundred, 250 tons, then you're over the major facility threshold. You don't include
fugitives if you're not in one of the listed categories. If you are in one of the listed categories, you
have to include your fugitives as well in calculating whether over the 152 hundred, 150 or 250 ton
threshold. The thresholds are measured before you do your project, so if you're at 80 tons per year
before you do a project and the project is going to give you a 40 ton per year increase, it'll put you
over the 100 threshold. But you get a free bite at. Apple in. Way because it's before you do your
project. That you measure. Do your. You're up to 120 tons. Next time you do a project, you'll be over
100 ton threshold, but you get this sort of free bite at the apple with one exception, which is if your
project by itself will cause an increase over the 100 or 200. Ton threshold. Then you get caught up in
this and you will have satisﬁed the ﬁrst element of the test and then ﬁnally for greenhouse gases.
Remember the basic rule I said at the outset. You can't get into Major NSR based on your
greenhouse gases alone. Only regulate greenhouse gases. If you're over the major facility threshold
for some other regulated pollutant. So at this step of the analysis. Don't look at greenhouse. You got
to be over the majority. Thresholds for some other regulated pollutants besides greenhouse gases.
That's the ﬁrst. Are you a major facility over one of these major facility thresholds? 2nd element is.
Do you have a signiﬁcant increase in emissions? So you need to ﬁgure out what your emissions
increase is going to be. We talk about that in a. It's the actual projected actual test, actual to future
actual federal NSR reform test. You calculate that and you compare it. Published NSR signiﬁcance
thresholds. I've this is not a complete list or in the. This is sort of some of the main threshold.
Excuse me, thresholds that are up there. Listed if there's no listed threshold, you have 0 threshold.
Any emissions increase will be a signiﬁcant increase. And then there's a little wrinkle for
greenhouse gases. Sort of a two-part threshold here. Technically, there is no threshold signiﬁcance
threshold listed for greenhouse gases, which means. You have a 0 threshold in terms of mass, at
least for greenhouse gases. Remember what I said at the outset? Greenhouse gases are not subject
to regulation unless you have a 75,000 ton CO2 E increase. So really you've got to satisfy both of
these things to get into NSR under the federal approach. You've got to have some amount of mass
emissions. In terms of mass and then you have to have 75,000 tons per year increase in terms of
CO2 E? Right quest. If it's coming from your facility. Yeah, sorry. I should thank you for reminding me
the question is, does that include biogenic and anthropogenic? Eat. If you have, you know, material
biomaterial that somehow you're processing. Yes, that is included. And you have to be over there.
The only way that this really comes up because think about it. If you have 75,000 tons of CO2
increase, you probably have at least some mass increase too to get you that 75,000 tons the only
way. This wrinkle would come up is what if you have a. Where you have. A large decrease in CO2
emissions, but a small increase in emissions of something like SF6 sulfur hexaﬂuoride, which has a
very high global warming potential. That small increase may give you a very big increase in CO2, so
much so that you outweigh the CO2. Decrease and you have 75,000 tons of increase, but on a mass
basis your CO2 decrease is outweighing the SF6 increase. You may not actually trigger that, even in
some cases where you trigger that. Not a big. You get something like that, but it's worth mentioning
that wrinkle. So let's move on then. You have to calculate the amount of your increase under the
actual to future actual test to you know determine when you have a signiﬁcant increase or not. So
this slide talks about how you do that under the federal rules. EPA gives you 24 months for a source
where you don't have to look at your actual. Baseline for the 1st 24 months, EPA says you can use
your potential emissions as the baseline. You're actually doing a potential to potential test for the
1st 24 months, so you're only have an increase from any sources that are less than 24 months old if.
Increasing the Pte, increasing your. Potential once you're more than 24 months old, then you have
to use this actual to future actual methodology. I'll tell you about that in a second then. EPA also
has this third category, which says if you have different types of sources, some are older than 24.
Some are younger. You just use whatever approach is appropriate for that source, and then you
combine them all together at the end. Applying the actual to projected actual methodology, EPA
has a deﬁnition of baseline actual. And then it's got a deﬁnition of projected actual you're going to
project your actual emissions in the future, and you compare the two to see whether the increase is
going to be above the signiﬁcance thresholds. First of all, you got to ﬁgure out what your baseline,
actual EM. Are and this is where. We get into some of these NSR reform concepts. There's actually 2
rules here. There's a general rule that applies generally, and then there's a special rule that I'll talk
about next for. Electric utilities steam generating. That's the term EPA uses. I call them use goose
for short electric utilities, steam generating units, but for every other source we have a general rule
which uses what they call the 10. Look back. You can look back 10 years into the past. And you
choose any 24 months out of that 10 year period and that's what your baseline period is going to be.
Usually an applicant will use the highest 24 month period because that gives you the most
advantageous baseline. Umm you have to use the same 24 month period for all of the emission
sources that are part of your project. Are multiple projects. You choose whichever 1 maximizes all
the different projects out of there, but it's the same period for all of them. For different pollutants,
you can use different baseline periods, but for each pollutant you're looking at got to use the same
24 month period for all projects. Umm, you do include fugitives. You do include start up and
shutdown emissions malfunction emissions. Umm, you don't count any emissions during your
baseline period that were in violation of permit limits. We're not gonna give you the beneﬁt of having
a higher base line if you. Doing something that violated you permanently. And then you have to
apply the surplus adjustment we talked about this before you adjust your emissions downward to
reﬂect current regulatory standards. So that's the general rule. Look back for non use goo sources.
The rule for use goose is A5. Look. You only go back ﬁve years and you choose a 24 month period
out of the past ﬁve. Years. Or there's a little bit of an out there if you can show that it's not
representative any 24 month period during that ﬁve years you can use something that's more
representative. But you have to make a demonstration that the ﬁve year period, the 24 months in
the ﬁve year period is not representative. All the other details are basically the same for the usgu
ﬁve year look back scenario. The two differences I've highlighted there in bold. One is that for the 10
year look back, it's 10 years back from the date of commencement of construction or the date of
your permit application, whichever was earlier for the use Google ﬁve year look back, it's from the
date of the commencement of construction in all cases. And then the other wrinkle is for the ﬁve
year look back rule for use goose. Don't have to do a surplus adjustment. You just take the the
baseline emissions as they are. That's how you ﬁgure out what your actual emissions baseline is for.
Then you have to look at what your projected future emissions are going to be going out into the
future. You don't know what they are, obviously, because it. You project forward for ﬁve. What your
missions are going to be, and you have to take the highest 12 month period out of that ﬁve years
going forward. That's the general. There's also this alternative rule that I mentioned here. Looking
forward 10 years. If you trigger that, then you got to look at 12 months going forward for 10 years.
That's how you deﬁne what your signiﬁcance is going to be. Gives you the beneﬁt of excluding any
emissions increase that would come from an increase in demand. That would have happened
anyway without your project. And the concept here is that we only want to Ding you or get you
caught up for emissions increases that are going to occur because of the project that you're doing.
So any emissions increase that you would have had anyway, just because of increase in demand
going forward for the next 5 years, you exclude that you can exclude that from your projected
emissions and they call that the demand growth exclusion. I also want to highlight that the, the. Are
supposed to look at all the relevant information out there because there is a concern. That you guys
will be telling the regulators, oh, we're not going to have that much emissions. We're really not going
to have that much production going forward. Really not going to be that big of a deal. But then your
company is also telling the investors and the shareholders, oh, sales going to be off the charts and
we're really going to be ramping up to huge levels of. You know, if there's a missed mismatch there,
we get concerned that you may be downplaying to the regulators what you're up playing to the, you
know, all the other people who you might want to say that you going to be having a lot of production
for. Our projected future actual emissions is going to be and then we measure that. We compare
that with the baseline emissions and we see whether there's going to be. Increase and if the
difference is less than signiﬁcant, then you're out of NSR. You don't have a signiﬁcant increase, so
you haven't satisﬁed the second element of the test. Having a signiﬁcant increase from your
project, which is good because then you don't have to worry about NSR for. That project, under the
federal backstop, at least. But there's a couple of things if you if you have made a non applicability.
Termination that you need to think about. These are administrative requirements that apply if you
have concluded you don't have a signiﬁcant increase under this test. First of all, you may have to do
some administrative sort of paperwork documenting your non applicability determination, keeping
those ﬁles if one of the regulators wants to come back after the fact and review it. And then you may
also have to track your emissions going forward. To make sure that you don't have actually have an
emissions, a signiﬁcant emissions increase. When you actually start building your project and
going. Forward the threshold for these for applicability of these is whether your increase is going to
be over half of the signiﬁcance level. If you're going to be having an increase that's over half of the
signiﬁcance level, EPA thinks well, you're getting close to being a signiﬁcant increase that. We want
to, you know, start keeping track of whether you did all this non applicability determination
correctly. So you look at your emissions increase without taking the demand growth exclusion into
account. And if you're over 50% of the signiﬁcance threshold, then you've got to document your non
applicability determination keep. If you are still over the 50% threshold after you take the demand
growth exclusion into account, then you've got to do this post project monitoring and reporting.
That kind of stuff. So those are things that apply if you if you ﬁgure that you're not subject to NSR
under the federal backstop, if you are subject to NSR, obviously you're going forward, you're going to
be doing NSR. Don't worry about any of this stuff. Question. The question was how long is that post
project monitoring? And I would have to double check the rules, but I think it is the ﬁve year or ten
year window that you have to project, right? Because the idea is that we want to see what your
actual emissions are. To see whether they match the projection that you did. You know if your
actual emissions are way higher than your projection, maybe you didn't do your projection. So
maybe we should go back and see whether you actually did a, you know, good job with those
projections with a projection, or whether you were fudging the books. So that's the concept there
and you can get out of all of this if your actual to potential shows that you're not subject to NSR, you
can just short circuit all of this by saying, look, no way we could ever have a signiﬁcant increase
under actual to pot. So there's no, you know, concern that we're low balling what our emissions
increase is going to be. So you can sort of short circuit that if you want to. Can use the actual to
potential test. So that's basically. You do this second element of a signiﬁcant increase for sources
less than 24 months old. It's a potential to potential. Do you have any increase there for sources
that are more than 24 months old? Have to do this baseline, actual, projected future actual. You
add up all of the sources that are part of your project and you see what the increase is for each one,
and you see whether your increase is going to be over the signiﬁcant threshold that we talked about.
And then that's the key. If you're over the. You have a signiﬁcant increase. And you've satisﬁed the
second test for federal major modiﬁcation. You've got to move on to the third test if you're less than
signiﬁcant, you're done. You don't to worry about the third test there. So if you're signiﬁcant, you
move on to the third test. Net. Here is where we look at other recent changes at your facility,
increases and decreases to see whether your net emissions increase overtime is signiﬁcant and the
concepts here are a contemporaneous period. You look at all increases and decreases that are
contemporaneous. We'll talk about that in a second. And you look at whether the increase in
decreases are creditable. You have to include in this calculation all increases that are
contemporaneous. And creditable. First concept is contemporaneous, and it's easiest to show this
by a graph showing you what the contemporaneous period is, and it's that red contemporaneous
window on the graph. You see here it's ﬁve years back from the date that project commences
construction. It's a little bit different than from the district deﬁnition of contemporaneous, which is
ﬁve years back from the date of a complete application. This is ﬁve years from when the project
commences construction or going forward in the future. Up until when the project commences
operation. Or if it's a replacement project, we actually give you 180 days from a shakedown period.
A lot of times what happens with a replacement project is you keep the old project going until the
new one gets built. And then you shut it down. If the new one gets built, it may require a little bit of a
shakedown period before you feel conﬁdent that you're ready to shut the old one down. So if that's
the case replacement project, you get this 180 day extra window there for contemporaneous. If the
project falls within that window, it also has to be creditable. The main concern here is that have you
used this increase or decrease in an NSR? Air quality evaluation before and if you have, then those
emissions increases are kind of already brought into the calculation system and the the modeling
system and the accounting system that we have. And so you don't include those in applicability
determinations going forward. A couple of other wrinkles here, but I'm just going to move. So we
don't get too much farther behind here, but you have to have a contemporaneous and creditable
increase or decrease. And if you do, then it comes into the netting calculation. So for each one of
those increases and decreases, you have to calculate the amount of the increase or decrease so
you can add the mall up and see whether you have a net increase. How do you measure the
emissions increase or decrease for these contemporaneous creditable increases and decreases?
What we don't use the NSR reform actual to projected actual test. This we use actual to potential.
So if your source is more than 24 months old, its actual to potential we use the same baseline rules
for what your baseline actual emissions are. The general rule is that 10 year look back, we talked
about any 24 months out of the past 10 years for use. It's the ﬁve year look back any 24 months out
of the past ﬁve years or more representative period. If you can show that something else is more
representative. And then you look at what your new Pte is going up or going down depending on
whether it's an increase or decrease. And then EPA has this rule that if you're less than. Four
months old, it's a Pte. To Pte test. So you basically go forward and you calculate the amount of an
emissions increase or decrease for all these contemporaneous creditable increases and
decreases. And then you add that to your project increase and you see whether you have a
signiﬁcant net increase. And I put up a slide here that just kind of shows how this all happens. Let's
assume this is a major facility, so you satisfy the ﬁrst Test. Let's assume we're talking about SO2
increases just to throw one out there. The signiﬁcant threshold for SO2 is 40 tons per year. If this is
your project, increase. Well, you have a signiﬁcant increase here for your project because it's 80
tons per. That's the second element of the major modiﬁcation test, so you've gotten through two of
those elements of the federal backstop test. Now you come to the third element. Do you have a
signiﬁcant net increase? So we look at all of these contemporaneous creditable emissions
increases and decreases. Well, you look at this, we've got 70 tons of reductions, 10 tons of
increases. You do all the math and you end up with 20 tons of a net emissions increase. From all of
these contemporaneous creditable projects, so you have netted out in this case because the the.
So 2 threshold is 40 tons per. You've only got a 20 ton per year net increase. You don't have a
signiﬁcant net increase. So you have gotten out of the federal major modiﬁcation test by netting.
This project has netted out of NSR. So that's basically a federal backstop tests again if you walk out
of here remembering only one part of this. Remember the three-part test. Facility signiﬁcant
increase signiﬁcant net incre. And I also want to throw out a couple of perspectives just to make
sure that you keep this all in perspective. This may seem like a whole bunch of additional regulatory
headache coming down the pipe. It's a lot of things to keep in mind, but I want to sort of emphasize
that I don't think this is going to be a big additional substantive burden because the district's NSR
test that Pte increased test is actually much more stringent. It looks at short term Pte and long term
Pte, not just annual emissions. We don't have these high. Signiﬁcant thresholds. It's any increase,
not anything up to 40 tons per year or whatever the threshold is. We use an actual to potential test,
which is more stringent, not this actual to projected actual test which is you know in many ways
less stringent. So if you're going to be a modiﬁcation under the districts NSR rules, I think 99.9% of
the time you will get caught up in all of this. Under the district's test. So that means you're not going
to have a bunch of additional regulatory burden because of the federal backstop test. Where this
will come up is if you are not a modiﬁcation under the districts test, you then have to think about
the federal major modiﬁcation test and you may have to go through paperwork exercise to
document all this non applicability and you may have. Record keeping requirements and maybe
even you might have you know monitoring requirements, but once you get used to the way all this
works, you'll be used to. It's a little bit more of a paperwork burden, maybe for projects that don't
trigger NSR, but it's not going to be bringing a whole bunch of other projects into the NSR program. A
question. No, you cannot come into this. Just. Well, let me qualify that you can't be a major facility
because your greenhouse gas, because your greenhouse gas, but you can be over the major facility
threshold for some other pollutant. Then you could have a signiﬁcant increase in greenhouse gases
because greenhouse gases are taken into account when you talk about signiﬁcant increases and
decreases. You can get brought in that way.

OK.

Yes, 75,000 tons, 75,000 tons is the threshold. Yeah, that's right. Yes. The question is. Is the federal
backstop test the same as EPA's test, and in particular, is there a difference with respect to cargo
carriers emissions from cargo carriers? Well, the federal backstop test is, by deﬁnition, EPA's major
modiﬁcation test. So if EPA doesn't look at cargo carriers in ﬁguring out whether NSR applies, then
this federal backstop test doesn't either. And I don't think that EPA takes into account cargo carrier
emissions in determining whether NSR applies. Under the Ennis, the federal NSR applicability
approach, which means because EPA doesn't do it, that we wouldn't do it either. Because we are
just taking EPS approach Epas, NSR applicability test, we're just taking it off the shelf and saying
you know what EPA says that they're worried that their program might pick up something. Don't pick
up, so just check and see whether their program would pick anything up. So for this element, the
federal backstop element, I don't think cargo car. Come into it. Our program does regulate cargo
carrier emissions in some other aspects of NSR, so we will be talking about including cargo carrier
emissions later on. But for purposes of this federal backstop test, we're just looking at whatever
EPA would do. Now you know I could do a whole day on NSR applicability. Is just skimming through
it very quickly. A whole bunch more in this book and you know, giving you citations to where in the
federal regulations all these rules apply and so forth. All right. We are just about on schedule. This is
the end of. You know, there's one other thing I want to talk about in NSR applicability and that's
altered sources. An altered source is a change that you may make in a facility that does not
increase emissions over either of these thresholds. Remember the deﬁnition of modiﬁcation was a
physical change or change in the method of operation. Change it increases emissions over either of
the two tests. An alteration is a physical change or change in the method of operation that does not
increase emissions over either of the two tests. We we didn't make changes in the substance of
this, but substance of this, but we did change. The the language a little bit and we wanted just to
clarify that an alteration is any change, it's got to be a change that may affect. Emissions. But it's
any change that may affect emissions that does not increase over the modiﬁcation thresholds. It
used to be there was some different types of changes that were listed, and we took those out
because really that's not the the touch stone of the test if you make. Of those changes. What
matters is, does that change increase emissions over the thresholds, or does it not? And so we just
put in that test to specify it's whether you have an increase over either the two tests and if you don't,
you're an alteration. So. Alright, that's the applicability concepts. Yeah, question. Yes, that would be
an alteration. But we're oh, actually, you know what? I think that the language doesn't include
throughput for. You know this is a difference between the deﬁnition of modiﬁcation and the
deﬁnition of alteration. The deﬁnition of modiﬁcation says physical change change in the method of
operation. Increase in throughput or production or other similar change. That that increases over
one of the thresholds. And so in the alteration deﬁnition, it does not have that language about
throughput or or hours of production or whatever it is that's there. So you can change those things
and and that would not be an alteration. And you can change those things as long as you don't
increase your PDE or trigger, you know, one of these modiﬁcation deﬁnitions, and then you're not an
alteration or a deﬁnition. Alteration would be a physical change or change in the method of physical
change or change in the method of operation that may affect emissions. That's the deﬁnition in
21233. All right. That's the applicability aspect of this. Now what we're going to do is go through the
substantive requirements in the NSR rule in the 22300 Section 1 by 1, boom boom. We'll go through
the mall and we'll see how all of these concepts, the substantive concepts work. The ﬁrst one of
those is best available control technology in 22301. And we haven't really made a lot of changes
here. Best available control technology is if you have a newer modiﬁed source you need to put in
kind of state-of-the-art emissions controls to make sure that you're limiting your emissions as
much as possible as part of the NSR program. The one major change we had to. Here was to put PM
2.5 into this. Because we were designated as non attainment for PM 2.5. So we have done. The list
of pollutants that are subject to back is now getting kind of long, so we took the list out of 22301
and deﬁned this term district back to pollutant so 22301 now says do back for any district back poll.
And then district back pollutant has a deﬁnition that lists out all of these things. These different
pollutants, and it does include PM 2.5 now. We've also clariﬁed. Let me just for those of you maybe
who don't have aren't as up to speed on this backtest deﬁned as the most stringent emission
limitation. Or its most stringent control technology or device or emission limitation that has been
achieved in practice at another facility we call that. Or that is technologically feasible and cost
effective, and we call that backed one. The idea being that if some other facility, your competitor
down the street has done something to control emissions, you got to do it too. That sets the
baseline. Everybody's got to do that. Achieved in practice, that's back. To if something else more
stringent than that is technologically feasible and cost effective, then you've got to do that when
you make a major. When you make a a new source or modiﬁcation, even if your competitor down
the street hasn't done it yet. That sets the new standard. The way the old rule was written, the BAC 2
standard achieved in practice said 2 can be a control device or technique or an emission limitation.
Could specify it either way, but Bacc 1 didn't backed one, just said control device or technique. Was
kind of a hole that didn't hit emission limitations. So we've we've sort of matched those. So now the
back one deﬁnition also says back to 1 can be a control device technique or an emission limitation
question. Yet the question is, when you do the BAC 2 comparison in your competitor and is doing
something, do you look at different sizes of facility? Other differences in the. Yes, on a case by case
basis and you know that is so fact speciﬁc that you can't specify that in the rule. But obviously yes
if. Your neighbor down the street is doing something that's really, you know, not an apples to apples
comparison. We're not going to make you do the same thing if it doesn't make sense in your in your
situation. So those are the basic subjective changes we made for the back deﬁnition. Added PM 2.5
and and clariﬁed for BAC one. We also changed the language a little bit to specify exactly how the
£10 per day threshold works for backed. You have to be your source has to have a PT over £10 per
day. In order to trigger back and then you have to have a modiﬁcation that increases your emissions
by any amount. It's not the modiﬁcation that has to increase by £10 per day. It's your PT for. The
source has to be over £10 per day and then you have any emission increase. So that's what we've
done for back 22301. Not big changes there. Now we talk about emissions. We haven't made big,
substantive changes here. All we've done really substantively is added pm 2.5 as well, because we
got redesignated non attainment. So we had to add PM 2.5 to our non attainment NSR
requirements. But what we did was change the language pretty signiﬁcantly to try to clarify exactly
how you calculate. The amount of offsets that you need to provide when you trigger offsets the
language was a little bit opaque and kind of mushy before, and it wasn't clear exactly how you go
through the process of calculating. So we've clariﬁed that in the new regulations and I think the
easiest way to set this up is to 1st have a conceptual discussion about what offsets and offsetting
cumulative increase is all about. And then once you see conceptually you think it's pretty easy to
see how the language is going to work, so conceptually. I have a hypothetical example. Let's say we
have a source that has had a couple of modiﬁcations over the history. Let's say we're permitting this
modiﬁcation right now, but in the past it's got a couple of other modiﬁcations that have happened
since the offsets program came into effect. The idea here is that we look at the cumulative increase
and we have offsets that you need to provide for the cumulative increase. For your entire
cumulative increase back to this cumulative increase baseline date when the offsets program got
started. Although we exclude the actual emissions that you had when you ﬁrst came into the
program, that's kind of we consider those grandfathered in a way whatever you were actually
emitting. The ﬁrst time you came into the offsets program, we don't count that in your cumulative
increase. We don't need to get offsets for that. So we exclude this grandfathered actual emissions
back here, but once you do come into the offsets program, we now are going to try to get. Offsets for
your entire increase above that amount up to your maximum Pte. Whatever you're going to MIT
under. Case scenario, potential emissions. So the ﬁrst time you have a modiﬁcation, we deﬁne your
cumulative increase for purposes of offsets. As the increase over your actual emissions up to your
new Pte in each one of these over here on the left is pre. Modiﬁcation emissions and post
modiﬁcation emissions over. Pre modiﬁcation emissions, you're going to have an actual emissions
baseline and a pre modiﬁcation PT in each case, and then post modiﬁcation you have, you know,
just PT. So ﬁrst time you come into the offsets program, we need to get offsets for everything over
this excluded actual emissions up to maximum Pte here. That's what your cumulative increase is
the ﬁrst time you come in. It's actual up to your new Pte. Once you're up to, once, you've got your
cumulative increase. You provided offsets up to your new PDE. We only need to get additional
offsets. To the extent that you're increasing your Pte more. Right. So the second time you'd make a
modiﬁcation, you've already offset everything up to your. Old Pte here. So we're just looking at
whether you have an additional Pte increase over what your? Pte was before the 2nd modiﬁcation
happened and then now you come in for a third modiﬁcation. Do the same thing. You've already
offset. The cumulative increase up to this Pte over your excluded grandfather admissions back
here. So we're just looking again at the additional increase in Pte. So every time we go through this,
every time you're adding Pte here, we're adding to your cumulative increase and we're adding to the
amount of offsets that you need to give. Although the ﬁrst time you come in, we need to do it based
on your actual emissions baseline. So you go from your excluded grandfather admissions the ﬁrst
time you come into the offset system up to your PT here. And then after that it's just. Increase
further increases in PT going. Forward and you do it step by step and then at the end of the process
you've got a cumulative increase. Is everything. Up to your peak, maximum potential emissions,
excluding that grandfathered actual emissions baseline. The amount we're. To look to get offsets
for. So that is the concept. This example is a source, but when you get into doing this, when you
trigger offsets, you need to do the cumulative increase for. Entire facility. If so. First time you trigger
this you will be doing for everything at your facility. Everything, all the cumulative increases the. So
you'll be looking if you have other sources you'll be looking and see Gee, have we made
modiﬁcations at other sources too? Going back to this cumulative increase baseline data? The
question here is do you do that process for each pollutant? You do it for the pollutant for which you
triggered offsets. Yeah. Once you trigger offsets, 4 knocks or so 2 or whatever you'll be doing your
whole facility. For NOx or your whole facility for esoteric or whatever it is you trigger the offsets for.
So that is the concept. Now let's talk about how we put the facility into put the. Concept into
practice for a facility. And this kind of gets to that question here. You have to ﬁgure out what the
what, the facilities entire cumulative increase is back to that baseline date, cumulative increase,
baseline date and then you need to make sure offsets have been provided for all of that cumulative
increase. You know all of those previously previous modiﬁcations that incre. Now there's an easier
case which I think comes up in most situations, which is if your facility has already been subject to
offsets before, you would have had to provide offsets all along the way. So really, the additional
offsets you're going to have to provide is only whatever extra cumulative increase you have from this
permitting action. And that'll probably be most situations, because most facilities have already
been into offsets. I mean, most facilities, if they're going to get into offsets, have into offsets for a
while. So they probably have already offset all their historical cumulative increase. That's the easier
case because you're just worried about additional increase from the project being permanent. But
there's a more difficult case, which is where the ﬁrst time you come into the offsets program, then
you won't have provided offices before, so you're going to have to go through and calculate all the
cumulative increase from prior modiﬁcations and ﬁgure out what they all are and. Give offsets for
all of that stuff at the entire facility, and I've shown that here. This is the easier. You can see, you
know you've had all these prior accumulative increases from prior modiﬁcations, but you provided
offsets all along the way. So you just need to know what the the additional cumulative increase is
now that you what you. Offsets for. The more difficult case, and probably the much rarer cases here
we haven't provided offsets. Then you were going to have to go back and calculate the cumulative
increase from each of these prior modiﬁcations. Back to your cumulative increased baseline date.
This will come up much less often, but I think it is important. For every to understand the concept
here, just to make sure you understand how this system all works. It's this case that really wasn't all
that clear under the old. So the new regulations are specifying very clearly how you go through this
process. And again, you probably won't need to know this in great detail for most cases. But it really
is important that you get the concepts to understand how the regulatory language works. So now
let's talk about how in detail the regulatory provisions work. First of all, the thresholds for providing
offsets for NOx and. It's a 10 ton per year threshold, although if you're down between 10 and 35
tons, we have a small facility bank. And so if you're between 10 and 35 tons, you can take advantage
of the small facility. And it may be the district that is providing the offsets for you once you go above
35 tons, the facility has to provide its own offsets and pay back any offsets that it got from the small
facility bank in the past. Once you go above 35 tons, it's also an increased offset ratio of 1 to 1.5.
One, that's what your the. You're providing for your cumulative increase 1.15 to one. For pm. 10 PM
2.5, which is new in SO2. It's 100 ton per year threshold. I want to mention that the Pte those
thresholds 1035 a hundred those are based on the facility's entire PTT. And that Pte includes what
we call support facility emissions. So a support facility would be maybe a facility that's a supplier or
maybe some support facility that's not owned by your company, but is playing a signiﬁcant role in
supporting the operation of your facility. We haven't really deﬁned signiﬁcantly, but we have a rule of
thumb that we've sort of been thinking about and that's what's going to apply going forward. Kind of
a soft rule, maybe a guideline if you will. If the sport facilities, if 50% or more of the support facilities
output goes to supporting the main facility, that is a good indication that that support facility is a
support facility. If less than 50% is going to any one other facility, then really it's not a. Facility tied to
any one. It's kind of just as it's independent entity that's out there. But if it is a support facility, you
include that in the applicability calculation for whether you're subject to offsets and then when you
calculate that cumulative increase going back, you will also take into account. Any cumulative
increase at that support facility? We had a question about cargo carriers and this is where cargo
carriers comes in. We do include cargo carriers for purposes of the offsets calculations. Cargo
carriers excludes motor vehicles, but includes trains and ships, and it's all emissions from the
trains and ships within the district's boundaries. So by train that goes out to, you know, the edge of
Contra Costa or Alameda County, if it's coming in from the Central Valley for ships, it goes out to 11
miles from the Golden Gate Bridge 11 miles. Reason why we pick that is that's where the pilot
station. Arbor pilot station is out there, so all the ships that are leaving have to go out there to drop
off their harbor pilot. So you know, every ship that leaves has to go to that. So it's easy to calculate
because you know every ship goes there afterwards. You know where within the district water is
offshore or whatever. It. Who knows? But out to 11 miles, we know every ship is going there to drop
off their harbor pilot. Yes. No, usually they're. I mean, usually you can use a shipping company or
train rail operator. No cargo. It's all cargo carriers that are serving, you know, bringing cargo to your
facility and then fugitive emissions are included as well. The default district rule. All right. So once
you become subject to this to offsets, you then have to go back through and calculate the amount
of the cumulative increase back to that cumulative increase baseline date and see how many
offsets have already been provided and you provide offsets for any unofficial C. Increase. We have
deﬁned the concept of cumulative increase and it is the increase in potential to. From your project.
Less any contemporaneous onsite emission reduction credits. That you have associated with your
project and we'll talk about the that calculation in a second. But you calculate the cumulative
increase from your project and then you have to go back and calculate the cumulative increase
from all your previous projects and see what offsets have been provided. And we have this concept
called unoffset cumulative increase and you go back for every project, every permit that's been
issued at your facility back to the cumulative increase baseline date. See what the unofficial
cumulative increase was for each of those projects, and if there's any unofficial cumulative
increase, you provide offsets for that. Plus, your project that you're permitting going forward right
now, that calculation procedure is in two to 608. And it speciﬁes very clearly. And you know, with
speciﬁc details how you do. All of this. So let's go through step by step how that works. First of all,
you calculate the emissions increase from your project. For a new source, it's the full PT of the new
source. For modiﬁcation, it depends on whether you provided offsets before. And this goes back to
the concept we had back here that the ﬁrst time you come into this. You're looking at your actual
emissions up to PT E the next time, once you've already offset up to your PT, it's only additional
increases in Pte. So it really matters in calculating the amount of the increase, whether you've
already provided offsets or whether you haven't already provided offsets, in which case it's Pte. It's
actual to Pte or you have already provided offsets, in which case it's PT to new Pte. That is reﬂected
in the regulations. Which say if you have already provided offsets, then it is just any new Pte. So you
take your old Pte baseline, do a surplus adjustment. Your new. That the amount of increase for the
cumulative increase calculation or if you haven't provided offsets, then its actual emissions
baseline do a surplus adjustment and up to your PT. Once you calculate your increase, then you
look to see whether you have any contemporaneous onsite emission reduction credits. And we'll
talk about contemporaneous. Well, I guess we talk about contemporaneous right here. It's ﬁve
years before the date of the the complete permit application or after the date of the application. Up
to when you begin operations. Or if it's a replacement project, we give you an initial initial, an extra
90 days after initial. And again with the replacement project, this is the scenario where you keep
your old emissions unit online until the new emissions unit comes online, and then you shut the old
one down and we give you this 90 days just to make sure your new one is working proper. Before you
shut the old one down. The amount of credit available for a contemporaneous emission reduction
depends on whether you had provided offsets before. It depends on whether you provided offices
for the full amount of your potential emissions. From the thing that is going to be shut down in the
reduction that's occurring, if you provide offsets for the full amount of your source. That you're
shutting down to give you a reduction will give you credit for the full amount of your maximum
potential emissions. If you've given us credits, you know credits came in from the bank. For
example, when you permitted the thing, we'll give you a PT and you gave. Offsets for the full amount.
If you shut that down, we sort of ﬁgure that those reductions are already, you know, in the
accounting system. Give you back the the credit you know, so the banking credit that you gave for
that increase if you shut it down will kind of give you back into the bank the full amount of the. There
I will tell you that this provision is, I don't think long for this world because EPA doesn't like this and
they want us to change this. But for now, at least for fully offset sources, you get when you have a
reduction, you get the full amount of your potential emissions baseline. If you don't have a fully
offset source, you have to use your actual emissions baseline, and we use that. 603604 actual
potential calculation methodology. We look at your actual emissions baseline. You shut it down.
We look at your PT after the shutdown. Zero for a shutdown, or maybe something less than 0 if you
take a red. And that's the amount of emission reduction you get for that contemporaneous onsite
emission reduction. These are only reductions that take place at the facility and there are only
reductions that take place during the contemporaneous window. But if they satisfy those criteria,
you can use them to reduce the amount of cumulative increase associated with your project. It's
that amount. Cumulative increase that you've got to provide offsets for. So here is an example of
how this works, let's say. We have a project emissions increase of 10 tons per year, but we've got
these contemporaneous. Emission reduction credits at the facility. Are prior reductions. That have
happened at the facility. You can use those to reduce the amount of the cumulative increase. So a
project increase of 10, we've got these reductions here of eight. If you add them all up. And so that
gives us a cumulative increase of 2 tons per year. The amount of offsets you would need to provide
for permitting this project. Note the contemporaneous. It's ﬁve years back from the date of the
application. We looked at the federal contemporaneous. Earlier, that was ﬁve years back from the
commencement of construction. Our ﬁve year window is back from the date of the the complete
application. I shouldn't have put applications. I should have put complete application here.
Complete application submitted and then it's forward to when you commence operation. And then
I should actually also put on a little 90 days extra for the replacement project. So that's Step 3, yes.
No, the question was, does the federal backstop come up in all this? Federal backstop is only for.
It's only for whether you have a new Oregon modiﬁed project to get you into NSR. Once you are into
NSR, you forget about the federal backstop and you're doing just the stuff in 22. It may help to think
about the fact the modiﬁcation deﬁnition is in regards to one. 21234 that's where the modiﬁcation
deﬁnition is. So all that federal backstop test is you're in. That point, if you are a new or modiﬁed
source. Those deﬁnitions there you have fallen within those deﬁnitions. Then you move on to Reg
22. And you start going through all this stuff in regards to that we're talking about.
Umm.

All right, so this is the third step. You've calculate your your your cumulative increase from this
project. Now, if you're in the easier case. Right. The offsets have already been provided for the
facilities cumulative increase up to where you were before this project comes down the pipe, you're
basically done at this point because all you're worried about in the easier case is the additional
emissions, the additional cumulative increase from your project. And you'll be providing offsets for
that additional cumulative increase for that project because you already provided offsets for all
your previous cumulative increase. That's kind of the easy case. We will go on to talk about prior
unofficial increase and you do have to keep that in mind. And you do have to check on it just to
make sure that it's all done. All that prior cumulative increase has been offset, but we have a
database of all that and you guys will have records of all of that. You know, really it's just a question
of making sure that you're all up to date on your offsets for the easier. But there's also the more
complicated case, which is, you know, you got to go back and look at every one of those prior.
Modiﬁcations to see what the prior unofficial cumulative increase is. A question real quick.

Please.

Yeah. Yeah. The question is about shutting down projects. Mean like something here in the past? So
you have a. You are doing this and you have a project in the past that is being shut down. The
question is if it was a fully offset source. Do you get credit for the full pipe of that prior shutdown
source for this and the answer to that question is yes when you shut down these things in the past.
If these sources that were shut down in the past were fully offset, you provided offsets for the full
amount of the PT of these sources that are shut down. You get to use the PT as your baseline for
calculating these reductions. You get credit for the full PT of the source that was shut down for
these. If they're not fully offset, you only get actual baseline credit for these things that are shut
down. Question.

Official record.

Yeah. The question is about the official record. We're going to hit that in a second. Should I go
forward and hit hit that? We'll go forward. Yeah, one more question. The fully offset concept is for
reductions. These are all emissions increases the fully offset concept is when you have prior
reductions here that you want to use to reduce your cumulative increase. Do you measure this as a
Pte baseline or an actual emissions baseline? Where the fully offset concept comes in. The
confusion let me let me stress the source when I think the confusion is. Here you've provided
offsets for this. We've already said that you provided offsets here, so it's only an additional increase.
This is we don't call this fully offset, right? Mean we haven't fully offset this. It's just we've already
provided offsets for it and that is a point that could be a little bit confusing here. The fully offset
concept is when you're shutting something down, do we give you credit for your Pte as your
baseline or do we credit you for your actual? If you are fully offset. If you provided offsets for the full
amount when you shut something down, will give you credit for your Pte baseline. That's the fully
offset concept. This is a little. This is when you have a modiﬁcation. If you already provided offsets
for that source and it doesn't have to be for the full amount. Just has to be any offsets that were
provided in a permitting situation. No, the question is. Would this be a fully offset source if you shut
it down? No, the answer is it's not a fully offset source because you only had to provide offsets for
this amount. We exclude the actual emissions. If you had a new source that was built, you know
this is this is something that was in existence before the cumulative increase baseline date, which
is why it has this actual emissions baseline here. If you built something new after the cumulative
incre. Date you would be providing offsets for the full amount of the PT of that source. That would be
a fully offset source. If you shut that down, you would get the full amount of that. Back under our
approach. Yes. And we're going to get to that in a. I want to move on and we're going to take our
break as soon as we're done with this section. It is 1035 already. Where were we at here? So this is
how you calculate the project cumulative. Now you have to go back and ﬁnd the prior cumulative
the prior unoffic. Ial all of your modiﬁcations that have taken place all your permits that have been
issued at this facility back to the cumulative increase baseline date for every other pollutant
besides PM 2.5, that cumulative increase baseline date is April 5th, 1991. That's the way that's the
existing. Baseline date in our old regulations for PM2 point. It's when the new program came into
effect, which is a August 31st, 2000. So going forward, you're not going to have to look very far back
for PM 2.5, but for those other pollutants, it's back to 1991. For each one of those prior
modiﬁcations, you have to go through this process of ﬁguring out what the cumulative increase
was. So we ﬁgure out what the project increase was. Figure out any contemporaneous onsite
emission reduction credits that were given at the time or or credited at the time of that permitting.
Then that's what the cumulative increase would be for that prior project and then you see what
offsets were provided. And I want to mention again that this this whole process includes support
facilities. Let's keep that in mind. So then you ﬁgure we ﬁgured out what the the prior on offset
cumulative increases for all those prior projects. You add the cumulative increase from your current
project. That's the amount of offsets that you need to give. Simple case is it's just the increase from
this project, but the more complicated case is you could have. You know, a whole bunch of
unofficial cumulative increase going back in time. So that needs to be offset as well. Then you got to
provide. Then you got to apply the applicable offset ratio. Only it's generally it's a one to one ratio.
The only wrinkle is Knox and VOC. Over 35 tons per. It's 1.15 to one, and that's the amount of offset
that you need to provide. Now let's get one slide on the mechanics of doing all this. This is where we
get to 22609. We have a database that we have been keeping of all of the cumulative increase and
all the offsets that have been provided and so forth for every facility. This applies for facilities that
have been subject to offsets. It also applies for facilities that have not yet become subject to
offsets, so that ﬁrst. Go over the offset threshold and you need to go through. The complicated. You
need to go back and look at all these prior permit applications. We will have a database of the
amount of the cumulative increase from all of those prior permit applications, which means that
you may not have to do a whole bunch of, you know, pulling records and that kind of stuff because
we sort of have a database of keeping. Of this, if the database is not perfect and there's. Reason to
believe there's some inaccuracy there. The regulation that we have on this says don't slavishly
follow what the database says. So you may ﬁnd yourself pulling old permit applications to ﬁgure
some of this out, but the general approach is we have this database which is really going to help
when you have to do this. You just look up and you know you can see what the prior on off site
cumulative increase is going back to the baseline date and do the calculation that way. That answer
your question about 609 OK interpluent trading would used to allow you to provide POC credits for
Knox, EPA said. Can't do that anymore under their new rules, so we've taken that out. Only trading
that we allow. No2 or NOx or so 2 for PM10. So you can provide NOx or so. 2 credits for PM10.
Cumulative increases. The deferral provisions we used to allow, yeah, good.

Hmm.
No longer allowing. There will be no, you know, revisiting all that stuff. Only going forward. We just
have a deferral provision where you didn't have to give your offsets until your next annual permit
renewal that was based on a concern about you know the hassles of sending a bunch of paper
certiﬁcates back and forth now in the electronic age, that's not a concern. So we removed that. We
do still have a deferral provision for small increases of PM10, pm 2.5 and so 2 if. Is less than one ton
per. Year we'd say, you know, you don't need to give that right. Wait until you're on offset.
Cumulative increase is over one ton per year, and then give all your your credits at that point. So if
you have a cumulative increase of half a ton per year, you don't have to give your credits at that
point. But that is now another half ton of of offset cumulative increase you have out there. Next time
you have, maybe you have another .25 tons. You're not going to be providing it there because your
on offset cumulative increases 75. You give another half ton, you get another half ton accumulative
increase. Now you're on offset cumulative increases 1.25. At that point you got to provide all. Sets
and then we also have our small facility banking account and we sort of clarify the rules a little bit
about how some of that works. Now we're basically done with the offset section and I want to take a
break here at this point. But before we do that, I want to just remind you we have a provision for
converting banked emission reduction credits. If you have banked PM 10 credits that are out. We
have a process for you to be able to convert them to the PM 2.5 fraction and also to look at the
condensible portion. So if you have those credits, consider taking advantage of. There are rules in
regulation to for and if you can show us what the emission source was that created those credits,
we'll be able to take a look at that and say, well, this portion of it was 2.5 probably had a certain
amount of condensible with. As well, and we'll convert that for you. So at this point I want to take a
5 minute break and we are about 10 minutes behind. So please, if we could keep this break to 5
minutes and come back and I think in the second-half we'll be able to get on schedule and we'll get
you out of here at noon. Which is what we promised.

Yes. So if I trigger a. For you because.

My PGA public.

Thank you.

Is there any way we could wait until? After because I wanna OK. OK.

Reading.

We are 10 minutes behind schedule and so I want to make sure we get started again so we can
catch back up and get. Out of here.

Remind me to.

OK.

Unless you want to pass.

OK. If you see me not repeating it, I've done it a bunch of times.

OK.

Put your hand up and I'll know. Alright, the next section we're going to start talking about PSD
prevention of signiﬁcant deterioration. OK. One announcement if some of you folks were sitting on
chairs, there's some extra tables that got set up over. So if you want to be able to sit down and have
a seat over here at a table, it's a little bit easier to look through some of the materials. All right. We
are now going to start talking about prevention of signiﬁcant deterioration, which is a big portion of
what NSR is all about. This is the portion of NSR that applies for attainment pollutants, attainment
pollutants, the basic elements of non of of PSD I put up on the screen. We have the PSD best
available control technology requirement, which is a different. Of district backed that we talked
about. It's slightly less stringent, which we can afford because you know we're we're in a tainment
for PSD. We can afford a little bit of an emission. Growth. We can afford that growth, but we want to
make sure we don't jeopardize our attainment status. We don't want to allow signiﬁcant
deterioration in air quality for these. So we require projects that are subject to PST. To do this, air
quality impact analysis. Which is a modeling demonstration that looks at what your emissions
increase is going to be and then makes you show that you are not going to cause an increase that
will violate the next or an increase over what they call a PSD increment. Which is a maximum
allowable. That's deﬁned under the regulations of PSD. So you've got to do this analysis and show
that you're not going to violate the necks not going to violate a PSD. And then there's a couple little
bells and whistles here. We do this additional impacts analysis, which looks at impacts on visibility
and impacts on soils and vegetation. And then we also have this analysis on impacts to class one
areas. Class one areas are areas. Parks and wilderness areas that deserve special protection. And
so we have a requirement to look at that. That actually applies for non attainment pollutants as
well, and so I'm actually going to take the Class 1 area and kind of carve it out and talk about that
separately at the end because that really isn't just a PSD provision, it's for non attainment
pollutants as well. So those are the outlines of the program. As I said at the front, we have never had
our own district speciﬁc. We've never had our own district. Where is that coming from? Is that on
the speaker's? Alright. I we we have never had a district. PSD program ourselves. We have always
used the federal program. Which is the way a lot of most places in California have done it that way.
A lot of other places around the country have done it that way. As a result, EPA has a very robust
federal program. Federal regulations. It's well developed. A lot of. The regulations are well
understood and well known that history is out there. So when we decided to do our own PSD
program. Recreate the wheel on all this stuff, we said. Let's set up the applicability for our program
and then we'll import some of the concepts from the federal program. So you know, we can make
use of that. Regulatory program that's been developed by EPA. So this is the way it works. We deﬁne
what projects are subject to all this PSD stuff in our regulations. We have a deﬁnition of PSD. Those
are the attainment pollutants that are subject to this stuff. We have a deﬁnition of PSD project,
which are the projects that emit PST pollutants that are going to be subject to this. Then we say in
our regulations, a PSD project has to do PSD. That's in 22304, but then we do it by incorporating by
reference the federal program and we say a PSD project as we deﬁne it has to do PSD backed, but
should do it according to the federal PSD backed rules in 52.20. J That's the federal. So we
incorporate that backed requirement by reference. We say a PSD project as we deﬁne it. You have
to do PSD source impact analysis. We say that in 22305, but we say you do it according to the
federal rules in 40 CFR 5221 K through M. We incorporate by reference the federal requirements and
we do that for all of these PSD requirements. That way we set out in our rules. Program is going to
work but we incorporate by reference a whole bunch of that substance from the federal program
that's out there. So that means that if you know a little bit about the way the federal PSD program
works, and that's the way it's worked in our district because we were, you know, using that federal
program, you are going to be pretty familiar with the way our PSD program works. We're just
incorporating all that stuff by reference. But with a little bit of a a different applicability threshold
because we are deﬁning PSD project at the front end under our regulations. So that's the basic
concept here. What I want to do is walk through the applicability stuff and then we'll walk through
some of the way these substantive requirements work under our regulations. So for PSD
applicability, we have a deﬁnition of PSD. These are the pollutants that all this stuff is going to apply
to. And basically it's the attainment and unclassiﬁed gluten. We've deﬁned it as every federal
regulated. Except for pollutants for which we are designated as non attainment, it doesn't make
sense to do any of this kind of stuff about trying to model no increase above the Max. You're not
going to throw us out of compliance with the Max if we're already in non ATT. It doesn't make sense
to have any of that stuff because you know, how are you going to show you're not going to cause non
attainment. Already are non attainment. So that's basically the way we have deﬁned. There's a
provision for California standards air quality standards because we are also requiring this PSD
analysis to show you. Pro is out of compliance with the standard for the Calif. But again, that's not
going to be any California standards where we're not attainment because you know, it doesn't make
sense to show not exceeding the not exceeding the standard when we're already out of compliance
with the standard. I want to point out also the greenhouse gas aspect of. As I said at the outset.
Greenhouse gases are only subject to regulation if they come from a facility that is over the 100 or
250 ton facility major facility applicability threshold. And you got to have that 75,000 ton. C2
increase. As well, the federal program also excludes hazardous air pollutants. So those are not part
of this. So if you take out the non attainment pollutants and you take out the haps, that's what's left
being regulated as under the PSD program. The. The program. The regulations apply to PSD projects
and we have a deﬁnition of PSD project in 22234. That's the applicability test for all of these
provisions that apply for PSD is whether you are a PSD project as deﬁned. That's the. You should
become familiar with. It is a three-part test and this three-part test should look very familiar to you.
You at a major facility over the major facility thresholds. Do you have a signiﬁcant increase from
your project and do you have a signiﬁcant net increase when you take into account other increases
and decreases aside from your project? That should be familiar from the federal backstop. And they
look familiar because we've incorporated this concept from the federal regulatory world that uses
this. But keep in mind that there are some important. So when you're going through this, you've got
to think, am I talking federal backstop test? I applying the federal backstop. Am I applying the
district's PSD test? Which one are we applying? Which rules are going to apply? For example, the
federal backstop three-part test uses the NSR reform actual to projected actual emissions test.
Under district regulations. We use actual to potential those are the kind of, you know, little wrinkles,
nuances that you need to be aware of. So just keep in mind which test we applying. Sure, you're
following the rules for that test. All. 1st Element is major facility. If you are in one of the 28 NSR
listed categories, it's 100 tons per year of PT of a of a regulated sorry of a PSD pollutant of one of
these PSD pollutants. If you're in those 28 categories, you do include fugitives if you're not. One of
those categories, it's the 250 ton threshold that applies Pte of 250. Or more of a PSD pollutant and
fugitives are not included. The. The facility has to be over those thresholds before you calculate this
stuff. Whether you're over the threshold, unless the project itself would be a major increases over
the major threshold of 100 and 200 or 250 tons. All by itself. And you will be a PSD. Or at least you're
going to satisfy the ﬁrst element of a PSD project. If the project increased by itself is over the 100 or
250 ton threshold. And then the reminder about greenhouse gases, again, you never look at
greenhouse gases to ﬁgure whether you're over the major facility thresholds because greenhouse
gases by deﬁnition can only be regulated if they come from a facility that is over the thresholds for
some other regulated pollutant. So again. Gases don't come in at the ﬁrst step. They do come in at
the second step, though. If you're a major. If you're over the major facility thresholds, they can be
evaluated to see whether you have a signiﬁcant increase for. So that's the second element. Is your
project going to cause a signiﬁcant increase in apsd pollutant? Because this is a district deﬁnition
and a district applicability concept, we use the districts actual to potential test we talked about at
the front end under 603 and 604603 is how you calculate your actual emissions baseline 604 says
you. That actual emissions and you see what the difference is to your Pte going forward. We also
use the district signiﬁcance thresholds to see whether the amount of that increase is going to be
signiﬁcant and we have a regulation deﬁning signiﬁcant increase for district purposes. They are in
substance basically the same as the federal signiﬁcance threshold. So in substance, there isn't
really a difference here, but because this is a district applicability concept, we're using the district
deﬁnition of what a signiﬁcant increase is. And then as I mentioned, greenhouse gases are included
at this second step to see whether you have a signiﬁcant emissions increase. So just going through
this in more detail, when you apply the district's actual to potential test to see what the amount of
your increase is going to be, you use the district baseline period. The general rule is three years. It's
you. Look at what the date of your complete application is for this new project. It's three years back
from the date of the complete application. That's what you use to deﬁne your your emissions
baseline. We do have a special rule for greenhouse gases. Reason why we are doing this for
greenhouse gases is this is the ﬁrst time that greenhouse gases really have ever become subject to
regulation. We wanted to give a little bit more ﬂexibility for greenhouse gases. There's also a
provision in state law that says we're not allowed to relax any of our. Old NSR concepts or old NSR?
So if we gave a more ﬂexible baseline than the three-year baseline, we might run afoul for those.
That only applies to relaxing existing regulations and so that didn't apply for greenhouse gases
because we never. Regulation on greenhouse gases before, so we are mirroring the federal rule
much more for greenhouse gases. It is if you're less than 24 months old, you use a PT E to PT
increase test. If you are more than 24 months old, you use this 10 year. Look back for your general
rule any 24 month period in the past ten years or. Use goose. It's the ﬁve year lookbook. Look. It's
any 24 months during the past ﬁve years or more representative, if you. There's more representative
period. So the baseline period for greenhouse gases looks much more like the federal approach to
base to the baseline period. We don't use the actual to projected actual test for that. Umm. But we
do use the, we do use the federal baseline approach for greenhouse gases. So that's how you
calculate your baseline. You go through this and you calculate your baseline emissions you adjust
for. Any current regulatory standards we call that the surplus adjustment and then you see what the
amount of the increase is going to be up to. Your post project Pte, that's the actual potential excess
emissions, actual potential emissions increase test and you compare that. Much of the
signiﬁcance thresholds to see whether you get a signiﬁcant increase from your project. That's the
second element. Do you have a signiﬁcant increase from your project if you don't? Not a PSD
project. If you do, you have to go on to the third step, which is is there a signiﬁcant net increase.
Again, this looks like very similar to the federal netting concept. Couple of little wrinkles that are
different. It's similar in concept that we are looking for contemporaneous. Creditable emissions
increases and decreases to put into this netting calculation, we have a deﬁnition for
contemporaneous and a deﬁnition for creditable, but those deﬁnitions are a little bit different than
the federal ones. So make sure that if you're using this test, you're using the right district regulation.
Contemporaneous the best way to show this is graphically. The contemporaneous deﬁnition is ﬁve
years back from the date of complete application, not the date of commencement of construction,
as under the federal rule, but from the date of complete application, and then going forward to the
date the project. Operation or for replacement project this additional. 90 days. If you fall within that
window, you also have to look at whether you are creditable. And like under the federal rules, this
looks at whether this increase or decrease was used in a NSR air quality impact calculation
demonstration in the past. If you looked at that increase or decrease in calculating what the effect
is going to be on air quality already in a. PSD. Then you don't look at it when you're doing this netting
calculation going forward. And that's what that's the basic touchdown of what creditable means. So
once you've ﬁgured out what all your creditable contemporaneous emissions increases and
decreases are for the netting calculation, you have to ﬁgure out what the amount of each one of
those is. And again, we use the the standard district rule. An actual potential. Emission increase or
decrease calculation in 22603 and 6:04. We have that baseline period we talked. It's three years is
the general rule for the baseline period with the special rule for greenhouse gases. That's the 10
year look back or the ﬁve year look back. And you just ﬁgure out for each one of those prior
increases and decreases, you ﬁgure out what the actual emissions baseline is. Figure out what the
potential was after you had the increase or decrease, and that's the amount of each one. Those
increases and decreases. So here you can see an example of how the netting works, and again this
looks similar to the netting concept we had in federal. You get your project increase if that is
signiﬁcant, then you look at your contemporaneous creditable emissions increases and decreases.
And the net emissions can then be brought down below that signiﬁcance threshold. And so that is
the three-part test under the PSD project deﬁnition, similar to the federal approach but with some
wrinkles. Make sure you're following the right deﬁnition of the right rules. If you are a PSD project
under these three thresholds, there are these three elements of the PSD project. Then you have to
go on and look at applying all of the substantive requirements of the PSD regulations, and I kind of
listed them out here. Talked about them earlier. The backed. It's the source impact analysis
requirement. Additional impacts. So forth. But the concept here is the regulations that are listed
here tell you you have to do them, but then they all incorporate by reference. The federal approach
to doing this. So once you get into each one of these provisions, you're going to be looking at the
way the federal. PSD program addresses each one of these. So we're. Going to go through them, but
I want to have a quick note about where the sources of the requirements come from when we look
to the federal program, because there's a whole huge universe of different sources. Of law and
regulation and guidance and so forth. And I want to make sure you're aware of them. The federal the
regulations for PSD are in 40 CFR 52.21. But they're, you know, they're not super. And they leave a
lot to guidance. So you also have to look for where the guidance comes from. There's one other
provision in the regulations, which is Appendix W in 40 CFR part. That should actually say part 51.
50 that is a regulation that must be followed, but it's for the modeling part of this. But when you look
at that regulation, a lot of it is just guidance and it says generally you should do this or you know
look at these kind of things as your approach. So in many ways that leaves you with a lot of
discretion on how to approach these things. EPA has this NSR workshop manual. That is also
guidance document out. I downloaded this from the web. I don't think you can get it in print
anymore, but you can download it if you're going to be doing a lot of this work, it's a good idea to
download it and put it in a binder. I've got a lot of notes in here and this has a lot of where the rules
come from in it as well. There's environmental appeals board decisions and EPA guidance
documents and so. I just want to make sure that you're aware that there is this huge universe of
potential sources of where these rules come from. That's out there that you're going to have to be
aware of. One nice thing about this manual is that we have put citations to where a lot of this stuff
comes from. In the manual, and so you can go through the manual and it kind of will explain how to
do all this stuff with endnotes. And you look in the endnotes and it will provide you with very
detailed citations. In this part of the. Look in this page of the NSR Workshop manual. Look at this
EAB case or something like that. That sets out the rules so that is going to be. Sort of a road map for
you to help you ﬁnd where in the universe of the federal PSD world that the source of the regulations
actually comes. From from. All right. With that out of the way, let's go through the regulate the
substantive parts of the regulation for PSD 1 by 1. Start with a PSD backed requirement. You have to
do PSD backed under Section 304 for any pollutant for which you will have a signiﬁcant net
increase. You did that applicability test for every pollutant where you have a signiﬁcant net
increase. You have to do PSD backed and you have to do it for each source. Part of your project that
will have. Any increase in emissions of that pollutant at all. It's not sourced by source. Signiﬁcant
increase its project signiﬁcant net increase and then every source that will have any increase within
that project. We use the federal deﬁnition of backed here. This is PSD backed, so it's a little bit less
stringent than the back we were talking about before. And the main difference is that there's a cost
effectiveness analysis or calculation that goes in to every backed. Determination. So I said. If your
neighbor down the street has been using a certain technology, you've got to use it too. It's the same
type of. We don't have that here. If your neighbor down the street has been using it, maybe it's
appropriate for your. But if you can show that it's not cost effective at your facility, you don't have to
do it even if somebody else has been doing it, there's always that cost effectiveness calculation
that gets taken into accommodation. And an analysis of whether there's going to be ancillary
environmental impacts, for example, if using a certain type of control technology, might have
secondary missions or something like that. If there's another control technology that's a little bit
less. Effective. But it's going to avoid that secondary environmental impact. Maybe it makes sense
on the whole to use that slightly less stringent control technology. Have the overall environmental
beneﬁt of avoiding those ancillary secondary impacts. So that, in a nutshell, was the PSD back
requirement. I want to point out that EPA's approach to doing this backed analysis follows a little bit
of a different approach than the district does. And I want you to be aware of that because you know,
any back analysis should be at least keeping this federal approach in mind, since the concept here
is you do the PSD provisions just like EPA would. Don't think that there is any substantive difference
in the conclusion that you would get to under this federal approach versus the way the district has
looked at backed, but it's good to keep. Just because we're supposed to be following the federal
model. The federal model is this top down ﬁve step approach. First of all, you look at every control
technology that is available for your type of source. And if it's available, it's got to be included in the
analysis. When they when you say available for your type of source, that means the type of project
that you're doing and not necessarily another type of equipment or another type of facility that does
generally the same thing, but would be really redeﬁning the whole purpose of what your project. Is
all about and EPA calls this redesigning the source. And I guess it's best explained with an. Let's say
you have a project that is going to be building a plant that's going to generate electricity as a peer
plant using natural gas, and someone comes along and says, well, wait a second, you could have
much fewer emissions if you had a solar plant instead you. To be generating electricity, just like the
plant that was proposed. But you're going to be doing it with solar instead of burning natural gas.
Should be an available control technology. Instead of natural gas. Well, if the whole purpose of
building this was to have peaker capacity on demand so that you know, you can start. That would be
redeﬁning the source 'cause you're changing the entire purpose for which the project was proposed
and intended and designed. So you don't have to look at the solar as an alternative in that situation.
Would not be an available control technology. So Step 1, you identify all the available control
technologies. Step. You eliminate any technologies that are technologically infeasible for your
particular type of application. Whatever's leftover, you then rank the most stringent control
technology at the top. Then rank the mall down. As they get less stringent and you have to evaluate
all of those, starting with the top one, the most stringent 1 based on cost effectiveness. Based on if
there's any ancillary environmental impacts, if the top one is cost effective, then you choose that
one. If not, then you go to the next one and see whether that's cost effective and so on down. And
then you have to choose the top one that's left after you apply this Step 4. Looking at the cost
effectiveness of each one your question. It's not deﬁned, and the general concept is that you look at
what other similar types of sources projects have been required to do in the past and how much
they have been required to spend per ton of emission reduction. The idea here is that you know we
want to be fair across the board and so if a whole bunch of other people have been required to
span. $5000 per ton was just to throw out a number. Then it makes sense from fairness perspective
to make you to spend $5000 per ton to get emission reductions. It's kind of a general. It's not a, you
know, bright line, anything like that. There are thresholds out there that have been established. I
mean, our district has some that we. Use. You know that go into this and that's what we would have
been applying to other different projects out. So that would kind of be a touch tone that when you
come down the pipe and you say wait, this isn't cost effective. We can say, yeah, well, all your
neighbors, we require them to spend that amount for a ton of emission reductions. We're going to
require you to spend that much per ton as well. Well, we have thresholds that are published. Other
than that, you'd have to look at what their permit applications said, and there are databases out
there that collect a whole bunch of permit applications and you can look at their cost effective
analysis that they did that they did. And you know there are consultants that do. That kind of know
how to do those. You know searches. Databases and that kind of stuff. A question at the back. No,
no, no. It's it's. It can be anywhere. All right. I want to throw out a special point on back about
greenhouse gases. This is. We've never really regulated greenhouse gases before until recently, and
so there isn't really much of A of a add on control technology for. Don't have scrubbers that kind of.
Which kind of was a head scratcher for people. When when this back stuff ﬁrst came down? There
is one technology that could be thought of in that model, which is carbon capture and storage. It's.
It hasn't really come online yet in a big way, but it's out there on the horizon and and you know well, I
I hear some skepticism in the audience here today, but certainly there's a hope from a lot of
people's perspective that maybe it will become Fe. One day. But I want to mention how EPA has
come up with guidance on how to address this point, because that's important. You do have to
address it. EPA does consider to be an available control technology, so you can't eliminate it at step
one. In the ﬁve step process. You got included at step. But EPA recognizes that it's probably going to
get eliminated in most cases in the. Farther down, it may not be technical, technologically feasible
at Step 2, for example, you need a reservoir to put the greenhouse gases in. You don't have one
anywhere nearby, and maybe it's just not feasible. Or you might eliminate it at Step 4 is not being
cost effective if there's a reservoir that's 100 miles away and it's going to cost you huge amounts of
money to get a pipe there, maybe it's going to be technical. Going to be not cost effective. So the
bottom. In most cases, you're going to need to at least consider carbon capture and storage, but
you're probably not going to choose that as your control technology. What do you choose instead?
Well, the default has been energy efficiency. You sort of ﬁgure out how you can do whatever it is
your facility or project. Is intended to do make the product that it's going to need to make or. Do that
in the most efficient way, burning the least amount of fuel with the smallest amount of greenhouse
gas footprint. That is the the best way to do your project with the least amount of greenhouse gases.
So it's sort of an energy efficiency. Yeah, that's an excellent. And the question is, how rigorous do
you need to be in doing this analysis about carbon capture and storage? Given that in most cases
it's probably not going to be a realistic alternative, and the answer is much less rigorous than you
would have to be for other things. And that brings me to the ﬁnal bullet on this slide. There is
guidance out there. Very detailed and goes a lot. This stuff, and it actually addresses that very point
about your back analysis, is expected to be less rigorous on this stuff. So if you get a greenhouse
gas concern or question or issue, the best place to look is in that guidance document for answers to
all kinds of these questions. So that's PSD. Now I want to move on to. Probably the biggest thing we
have to talk about the PSD. This is in 22305. If you are a PSD project you have to do a source impact
analysis. For every pollutant for which your project will have a a signiﬁcant net increase. It really this
is a modeling. This is a you take modeling and you ﬁgure out what your emissions are going to be for
your project. And you model what the impacts are going to be and what is that going to do to
ambient concentrations on the ground in the vicinity of your project. And then you need to make
sure that it's not going to cause those ambient concentrations to increase such that we. Have a
violation of the Max or the California standards. We are also applying this for district purposes.
Standards where we. Entertainment. You have to show that you're not going to exceed the Max. You
also have to show that you're not going to violate a PST increment. Which are these deﬁned
increases over a baseline concentration that we consider to be a signiﬁcant deterioration. So to
prevent signiﬁcant deterioration you got to show that you're not going to increase over one of these
PSD increments. Only three PSD pollutants for which they apply, by the way. It's those three that
we'll be looking at. So this analysis has two elements to. First of all, we have what was called the
pre application analysis. In which you gather information about existing background
concentrations, right? Is the. Existing conditions where you're going to build the project and then
the second element is this air quality impact analysis. Where you then ﬁgure out what the impacts
are going to be, the concentration is going to be after you. The project to see whether you're going to
violate the next or an increment. There's two steps in that second, that second part there, there's a
screening analysis that you can do and maybe just looking at your project, you could say it's going
to be small enough. You can screen out. We call that the preliminary analysis. If you can't screen
out at the preliminary stage, you then have to go on to what we call the full impact analysis. And
there you'll be looking at the emissions from your source, and maybe from a bunch of other
sources. And so it's much more detailed analysis to see what your impacts are going to be. I want to
emphasize here that there really are very few hard and fast rules about how to do all this stuff.
Mostly comes from the guidance. And it's really going to take a lot of judgment and discretion on the
part of the consultant who's doing the modeling and the district permitting staff who's going to be
reviewing this and so forth to come up with the best approach. So keep that in mind as we go. I'm
going to give you some concepts here, but really there's very little in terms of hard and fast rules.
Bottom line is, you know, do whatever makes the most sense in any particular. So it's very important
to have a lot of, you know, communication between the applicant, the applicant's consultant and
district staff, on how this works. And then I also want to mention at the outset there's this case that
came down in 2013, CR club versus EPA. It kind of threw a lot of this into doubt about how well this
is actually going to work. I want to highlight this right. We'll talk about some of the speciﬁc areas
where there's some uncertainty is going forward as a result of this. Case, but just keep that in mind
that you know there's there's questions that are not answered yet. There will be further
developments as EPA tries to respond to this case going. So that's another overlay of, you know,
uncertainty and lack of speciﬁcs that are out there for how we do this analysis. All right, we said we
those two parts, the pre application analysis is. First one. This is the part where you look at existing
background concentrations and get that existing data that's going to go into your modeling analysis.
The EPA has historically allowed for exemptions from this requirement, but this is one of the things
that has been thrown into question by that Sierra Club versus EPA case. Historically, EPA has
published these signiﬁcant monitoring concentrations, or Smc's, they're called. And if you could
show that existing background was below the SMC or your project's impact was going to be below
the SMC, then you could be exempt from this requirement altogether. Most recently, EPA put an
SMC for pm 2.5 into the regulations because of all this new PM 2.5 stuff that was coming down the
pipe. Sierra Club challenged that. They said there should be no exemptions under the Clean Air Act
for this pre. Const. You know pre application requirement. And the court agreed with that and they
said, yeah, the Clean Air Act is very clear. Is very clear. No exceptions at all under any
circumstances for this pre application pre application analysis requirement. But the case only dealt
speciﬁcally with PM 2.5 because that was the only new regulation that had been promulgated. That
was. Challenged. So EPA has taken the position that 2.5 SMC is out the window, but all the other
SMCS are still in the books. They're still valid. So they're out there and you can use them or you can
argue for using them because the EPA is saying that they're still on the books. But if you do that and
anybody objects to that, you're going to run smack into this language from the DC circuit. Said
Congress is very. There are no exceptions under any circumstances for this pre application analysis
requirement. So my advice is, and this is sort of what the approach we're going to be taking in the
district engineering division is why bother, you know, getting into all that question about whether
the Smc's are going to be required or not, because you're going to need that. Information later on in
the analysis anyway. Why not just gather that information? Put it into pre application analysis and
not worry about whether you really still can comply or use the Smc's in the aftermath of the Sierra
Club versus EPA case. So OK, so if you are doing the pre application analysis, this is information on
background existing background. In most cases, you're going to be able to use information from
existing monitors because, at least in the Bay Area, we have a very robust network of existing
monitors. As long as you can show that the information from that existing monitoring network is
representative of the real con. In the area where you're going to build your project. You can use that
existing background. There's some information here about how exactly you determine what
representative means, and I won't go through that in detail right now. But the idea is that you can
use that existing information that's out there, at least in the Bay Area. Most cases I think you will be
able to. If you can't, if you can't show existing data as representative, then you're going to have to do
your own monitoring to come up with that representative background data. That can be
complicated or, or at least it can can mess up the project timeline because you have to do. Year. Of
monitoring in order to establish this on a case by case basis, maybe we can shorten that to as little
as four months. But the bottom line is if you are planning the timeline for a project, if you've got to
do all this monitoring for a year or however long before you can even get the information to submit
your application, that adds to the project timeline. So keep that in mind. That's the pre application
analysis. Now we have the source impact analysis where we do the demonstration to make sure
that you're not going to violate the nax or a PSD increment. As I said, there's a screening stage at the
beginning where you look only at the project's emissions, and if your project's emissions by
themselves are going to cause an impact that is less than one of these de minimis signiﬁcant
impact levels, then we're going to say. Have screened out. You are not going to have a signiﬁcant
impact. You don't have to go on to the full impact analysis. We call these signiﬁcant impact levels
the sills and EPA has adopted these by policy over many years. They never really were in regulation.
It was always done by policy, and EPA has said. That permitting agencies have the discretion to
come up with a still approach, and they have had a policy that were kind of the default sills that
were always. Used when the PM 2.5 stuff came down. EPA put a sill actually in the regulations for
PM 2.5 that was also challenged in the Sierra Club versus EPA case. And the argument there was
what if you have a situation where your existing background is very close to the Max? Where you
have a. What if the headroom between the background and the NEX is less than the sill? You could
allow an increase up to the sill that would push you over the next because your headroom is so
small. And you wouldn't have to do any of this analysis because you would screen out at the
screening stage because you were that. When that argument was raised, EPA. Oh, we never meant
that the sills were going to be binding. Never meant. You know, you had to use the sills under all
circumstances and we certainly didn't want you to use a sill approach in that case. But they realized
that the way they had codiﬁed that PM 2.5 sill in the regulation made it mandatory. There was no
room for, you know, discretion or anything. They pulled that sill back. They voluntarily took it back
and said we'll do more rulemaking about this. We'll come back with more about this. So that's
where we are now. That has thrown a cloud of uncertainty over the sill approach. Certainly where
you're in that situation where the background is very close to the Max and that headroom is very.
Subsequently, EPA has. You know, if you're not in that case and your background is well below the
knacks. Got plenty of room. Go ahead and use the sill approach, so you probably ﬁnd there if you. If
you do have very limited amount of headroom, EPA has said, let's talk about it. So I think that's the
best advice is if you get yourself in that situation, let's talk about it meeting within the applicant and
district staff and how are we going to go forward? We do need some level to use in this analysis and
the sills have always been that level and so you know, we're going to have to come up with some
number to use for things. Like you know, how do we do screening and that kind of thing? So, but it
probably will be something different than what the EPA has long established. Still is gonna be if you
ﬁnd yourself in that situation where the difference between the necks and the the background is.
Small. All right, if you can, if you can appropriately use a sill and you can screen out because you do
the modeling and every impact that you see from the model run, there are gonna be no impacts
over the sill. Then you screen out. If you can't screen out, then you need to go on to the full impact
analysis. Is the second part. This is where we look at other emission sources around your project.
And you do a multi source modeling analysis to see what the impact of your source plus all these
other things that are impacting air quality is going to be sometimes called a cumulative analysis
because you're looking at the cumulative impacts of these differe. All around, and as we've been
talking about, you need to show that you're not going to exceed the Max or California standard and
you have to show that you don't violate the increment. So here's the process in a nutshell for doing
this. This is EPA's approach, and again, this is mostly just established by. So there aren't hard and
fast rules, but this is the general approach. The EPA has always taken. And this is what we're going
to follow here in the district doing this stuff. First of all you need to establish an impact area. This is
the area in which you are going to look at what the ambient concentrations are going to be affected
by your project. To see whether you're going to push over the next or an increment. The impact area
is the way you deﬁne it is you establish a circle with a radius going out to the point. Farthest point
from your source, where there's an impact over the sill. And then you take that point and you draw a
big circle around your project with that radius out to where the impact over the sill is. And here's a
diagram from Epas NSR Workshop manual that shows this. This Gray is the impact area. Your. You
did the the preliminary analysis. Modeling looking just at the emissions from your project and you
found that this was the farthest point where there's an impact over the sill. So you make a big.
Circle here and that is the area in which we can evaluate effects on ambient air quality to see if it
violates the Max. Notably, you need a sill for this purpose. So you're even in the aftermath of EPA
versus Sierra Club versus EPA, that question, the use of sills, you need to ﬁgure out some way to
determine the geographical scope that you're looking at. Mean you got to ﬁgure out what your scope
is somehow. So you are going to need a sill, so you can't dispense with a sill concept altogether in
the aftermath of Sierra Club versus. CPA. It's just that if you got that situation where you're very
close to the Max, you may be needing to come up with a, you know, still. A case by case basis. So
that's how you establish the impact area. Step 1 here. Then you need to look at all of the other
sources that you're going to put into the multi source modeling. You know, that may be affecting air
quality within the impact area and you said you look out to 50 kilometers beyond. The impact area
and that's what this diagram from EPA's NSR Workshop manual is all about. Here's the impact area
out to the farthest point above the. You go 50 kilometers beyond that to see if there are other
sources that may. Be affecting air quality within the impact area? That's what you put into the multi
source modeling. Now here's a hypothetical example that put in the writing's a little bit small, but I'll
point it out to you. This is the impact area. Now here are all the other sources that they ﬁgured they
were going to use in their multi source modeling analysis. Summer outside of the impact area, but
within the 50 kilometers most of them are within the impact area. But you lookout beyond the 50.
You look at 50 kilometers beyond the impact area as your screening area to identify other sources,
and you're going to be looking for sources that have a signiﬁcant concentration gradient within that
impact area. That term is not deﬁned, so you have to use some judgment and discretion in ﬁguring
out. What sources out there are going to have a signiﬁcant concentration gradient? EPA stresses
that the overall number of sources going to be small, so we're probably not going to be talking like
hundreds. But it's really going to be up to a lot of discretion in ﬁguring that out. The other thing is the
concept here is that most other emission sources that are out there are going to be captured in the
background. So we're going to be doing the modeling analysis and we're going to add our model
results to background to see whether that's going to be over the sill. So really, we're only looking for
other sources to put into the model. That aren't going to already be captured in the background, and
so that kind of narrows it down. Look at things that may be where they're. You know they're going to
be doing something within your impact area. That isn't really already captured in the existing
background data that you're going to use for all of this. Once you come up with the universe of all
those other sources that are having a signiﬁcant concentration gradient within your impact area,
those are the sources you put into your multi source modeling. Rules about what emissions rate
you use for each of. Do you use the maximum emissions rate? You know Pte concept to use actual
emissions? Kind of thing. A lot of detail we've hit on a lot of that in the in the manual that we have
here about how to ﬁnd those things. You run that multi source modeling you come up with
concentrations at all your receptor points within the impact area and you and then you add in the
background and you see whether the resulting concentrations are going to exceed the Max at any of
those receptor points that you. Within that impact area. Question. OK. The question is if we assume
that the monitoring the existing monitoring data picks up all of the background sources, why are we
adding other sources? Well, the idea is that there may be other sources that are having a signiﬁcant
concentration gradient causing a signiﬁcant concentration gradient within the impact area that
maybe aren't picked up. By the background. And I mention that because that's kind of the the main
touchstone for ﬁguring out which sources need to be put into that multi source modeling
demonstration. Because it's not, you know, every other source out. I mean, think of all the sources
in the Bay Area. If you had to model every source that's, you know, putting pollution out there that's
adding. To our our problems, you know that would be thousands of sources. That's not the. The
concept is only that you're going to use, you know, a small handful of sources, and it's only those
ones that are having some impact within your impact area. That's not really picked up by the
background. And I don't have any other speciﬁc, you know, details or hard and fast rules to give you
about how to go about that. Other than just, there's these general concepts that are out there and
it's up to the applicant and the district engineer and the modeler and so forth. To deﬁne a universe
of additional sources, you know using judgment and using you know, sort of reasonable
assumptions and that kind of thing. This doesn't. The question was, how does this apply to
greenhouse? It doesn't apply to greenhouse gases. There are no necks for greenhouse. There are no
increments for greenhouse gases, so you have nothing to model. An EPA said that in its guidance
that you don't do this for greenhouse gases anyway, just to highlight again, this is an example of of
how other sources were chosen, and you can see they only. A handful of other sources. The idea is
you're not, you know, out there putting millions of sources into a multi source modeling exercise.
Really intended to be kind of a small number. How small? There's not any hard and fast rule on. So
that is how you compare. That's how you do the next compliance demonstration that's seeing what
the impacts are and seeing whether you're going to increase above the next. The other part of this is
the increment compliance demonstration and I'm going to do some little animations here because.
Think the best way to look at how. Do this is conceptually. So remember the concept with
increments. It's we want to have. We want to look at the amount of an increase that has happened
since a certain time in the past. So we just, without putting dates on here ﬁrst, the way to look at it
is to say what is the increase that's occurred between some time in the past. And present time
when we're going to be building our project, we have a baseline. And what is the increase that is
happening and what is the increase that's going to happen after we build our project in the present
time and is that increase over these established maximum increase levels these increments. So
that's conceptually what we're looking at is there going to be. Going to be causing or contributing to
an increase in concentrations over. PSD. There's a couple ways you could do that. I think the most
obvious way that people might think of is you ﬁgure out, you know, looking at some monitoring data,
what your concentrations were back at this time. And then you do some modeling about what's
going to happen now. And you see what the amount of the increase or decrease? Going to. That's
not the way EPA has done it, EPA has said. Let us. Look at all of the increases and decreases that
have happened during this timeframe. So look around at all the other sources around that might be
affecting air quality and ﬁnd out whether there have been any increases and decreases that have
occurred in any of those sources. You know, new sources came along, old sources were shut down,
things had modiﬁcations or incre. And decreases. We'll take all of that information and we'll say,
OK, what were the sources that existed at this? In time. We'll do modeling and that'll give us a
prediction of what the concent. Here and then we'll look at all the increases and decreases and so
forth that have happened in new sources and shutdowns, and we'll take all that information and
we'll run, do a modeling run here, including our project that we're permitting and that'll give us a
prediction of what. Are going to be at the present time after you build your project. And we can
compare the two modeling results and see whether there's been an increase or decrease over time.
So that's how this process has been done. So that the exercise is to go and look at this period of
time since this baseline date. Up to now and try to ascertain what kind of things have increased
emissions, what kind of things have decreased emissions. You know, come up with all those things
and then we'll do modeling runs from do modeling runs from back here and modeling runs from
here and that will how we evaluate the increase or decrease. Now if that seems simple enough in
concept EPA went and made it you. Much more difficult because that's the way they do everything
with. There's also another baseline date that you got to keep in mind here. Which? You also look at
any increases or decreases that happened at major facilities in this time frame. Going back even
farther before this baseline date. And this is increases and decreases that took place at major
facilities resulting from a physical change or change in the method of operation. This is all
emissions increases from all sources, whether it was a modiﬁcation, whether it was just an
increase in throughput or production, it looks at area sources. It looks at mobile sources, all kinds
of things back to this baseline date. Before this, you're looking at any increases or decreases in
major facilities that were the result of a physical change or change in the method of. So as a result,
we call this the minor source baseline date because remember, back here we're looking at minor
sources as well as major sources and in area sources and everything. And we call this. The major
source baseline data because here we're looking just at increases in major sources. Right. So what
you need to do is do a big, huge inventory of everything that's happened in the area. Look at all the
increases and increases back to this date and then look at any other major source increases and
decreases from physical change change in the method of operation back to that date. And you
count up all these increases and decreases and happen and then you got a model of before
scenario and after scenario. And that's how you do this increment compliance analysis question.
The answer is no. Same as with the. You know when you're looking at other sources to include in the
modeling analysis for the next compliance demonstration, it's kind of be up to judgement and doing
on a case by case basis. And I would encourage you to consult with your district engineer and. You
do this, but there isn't like a database where it's just easy to just, you know, look on a list and ﬁnd
out all what they are. A lot of discretion takes. Judgment and there are no hard and fast rules. Let
me just quickly ﬁnish up this slide.

OK.

You ﬁgure out what the area sources are that are affecting air quality within the area that you're
looking at within the impact area and you see if there are any changes there. I do know for for you
know, for for roadway sources for example, you can look at increases and decreases in VMT and you
can look at things like you know vehicle ﬂeet characteristics and that kind of thing and you. That to
estimate estimate. An emissions increase or decrease might have happened there. Umm. So just to
ﬁnish out this slide, if you get this concept, I think you've taken a lot away from this. There's a lot
more detail out there, for example the speciﬁc dates by statute. By regulation, these dates are put in
for the major source baseline date. For the minor source baseline date, there's no speciﬁed speciﬁc
date. It is the ﬁrst PSD, the ﬁrst PSD application. Excuse me. That comes in after a trigger date. The
trigger date is speciﬁed by regulation. That's right. But the minor source baseline date is the ﬁrst
application that gets submitted after that trigger date. First complete PSD application. After that
triggered a. So it might take some, you know, researching as to when the ﬁrst PSD application came
in after 1977. That is something that we could do and I, you know, it's on the list of things for our
engineering division to do to just have that out there. So we know for future reference. You know, we
don't get a lot of PSD projects and so this scenario is not going to come up a lot of times. Which is
why it's kind of more on the back burner of the things that we're going to be doing rather than the
front burner. That's that's how you would deﬁne. Going forward.

OK.

In the last ﬁve years, the answer is zero. We did have a PSD project for a power plant. And we only
implicated this for PM 2.5. And because you know, PM 2.5 was new. It was the ﬁrst PSD permit
application date. After that trigger date right? We. You know, we weren't looking back to a minor
source baseline date there because this was, you know, the present time was the minor source
baseline. PSD projects are rare. You know, these are only major. You got to have a signiﬁcant
increase signiﬁcant net. So the answer is not a lot, and keep in mind that we only have increments
for three pollutants. So we're not going to, you know, we may have PSD project that doesn't have an
increment speciﬁed for it. And then I also throw out there that generally air quality has been getting
better as I understand it in the Bay Area. I think that you know, generally we're looking at emissions
coming down since major source of baseline date back in 1970. For most of these pollutants. You
know. So I think that that you know, overall story is going to be showing you that you don't have to
worry too much about whether you have an increase exceeding the increment since the baseline
date, all right. Wrapping up this source impact analysis stuff. So the increment compliance
demonstration proceeds a little bit similarly to the way we saw this with the Max compliance
demonstration. You established that impact. That's the area in which you are going to be looking at
what your ambient concentrations are going to be to see whether they increase over one of the.
Then you try to ﬁgure out other nearby sources and you go out 50 kilometers past the impact area to
see if there's going to be other sources. You need to put into the modeling and it's sources that have
had an increase or decrease since that baseline date that. Affect the increment. Again, may affect
the increment is not deﬁned anymore speciﬁcally than that, but the concept is, you know you're not
looking at a huge number of sources there, so you have to use your judgment. You put all of those.
You look at all those increases and decreases and then you do 2 modeling runs. One is what the
scenario was before all those increases and decreases happened as of the baseline time time
frame. And then another modeling run, which is you know what the air quality is going to look like
now after all those increases and decreases have occurred including your project and then you
compare to see whether there's been an increase or decrease and then you see whether you've ex.
Of the increments or not? We have 3 pollutants that have increments and I also wanted to point out
there's different increments for class one areas compared to just the regular areas which are Class
2 areas and those class one areas are the. National Parks, wilderness areas, that kind of thing
where we take special care about preserving air quality there. So keep that in mind. Now, once you
do these things, there's a couple of wrinkles about showing whether you're going to have a violation.
Of an Airbnb air quality standard or an Increment 1 is what model points in your or what model data
do you use in your model? Run to compare against the standards. Most of the necks and standards
are written to allow a certain number of violations. Or exceedances per year, for example, you know
a knacks may be deﬁned to say you can go over one time per year without being a non attainment
area. So in that situation, if you're looking at your emissions point, you're looking at all your
receptors and the amount of. With the ambient concentration is going to be all. Receptors. You
don't have to look at the highest point. You can look at the second highest point because even if
that receptor experiences something over the next one time per year, that's not going to throw us
into a non attainment area. So there you'd be looking at what they call the highest second high. You
look at all the second highest points that are out there and what is the maximum impact you're
going to be taking into account? Predicted concentration at each location.

Um.

In addition, if you are showing a modeled violation of the NACC somewhere. The question is, is your
project causing or contributing to a violation of the next? The regulatory standard. Is your project
going to cause or contribute to a violation of the standard or a violation of increment? Now EPA has
this concept out there which says in order to be causing or contributing to a violation. Your project's
contribution to that violation has to be above the sill above a signiﬁcant level. And the way this
would come up is, let's take PM10 scenario for example. Now PM 10 is a winter time problem for us.
So let's say you have a project location here. And in the winter time, you're going to have a
exceedance of the PM10 nex that you've modeled. Here at this point, but let's say in the winter time
the air, the air ﬂow is predominantly. Where in the winter time when you're having a knacks violation
modeled, right? Here's where your emissions point is. So in the winter time, most of your impacts
are going to be going this way. It may be that in the winter the only impacts you have above the sill
are over here. The time when you have your next violation modeled over here. And then in the
summertime, when the air is blowing out the other way, you may get an impact over the sill from
your project over here. But there's no Max violation at that point because it's a summertime that we
don't for PM10 in the summertime. In that situation, EPA's approach is you're not causing or
contributing to that nax violation because. Impact when the violation occurs is not above the sill. At
this point you know the modeling may show a little bit of a contribution here, but if it's not over the
sill at the same time in the same place as that Max violation, then you're not causing or. To a
violation of the. And then the last point to throw out is that if you are showing a violation of a Class 1
increment, these are these special, more stringent increments that apply in national parks and so
forth. There's a variance process for that. The Federal land manager is in charge of protecting air
quality in the in the class one areas. And if the federal land manager concurs that there isn't a
signiﬁcant impact even with a violation. Increment. You can still have your project go forward,
although the Class 2 increments act as a backstop. There you could never have an increase over
the Class 2 increment. All right. That's basically it in a nutshell. Is a huge amount of, you know,
detail on that and a lot of that is in the manual. So you can look through if you want to ﬁnd out more
information about this. But I want to throw out as a closing thought. About what to do about the sills
after Sierra Club versus. Because you can see all through this discussion, we've been talking about
how to use the sills. You know, the Sierra Club EPA versus EPA case focused mostly on using the
sills to exempt you from doing the the full impact analysis in this multi source modeling. So forth. In
that scenario where you're bet your. Background was very close to the. You had very little
headroom, but once you get past that and you have to do the full impact analysis, you need sills for
things like deﬁning the impact area and so forth. So you know you're still going to need that. There
it's a little bit up in the air about how exactly you're going to need to do that. And so, you know, I I
throw that out there to keep in mind, you know, you're going to need the silicon semi probably safe
with EPA's promulgated sills or or you know they're not promulgated by regulation, but they're in the
guidelines. You're probably safe with those cells in a scenario where you have a lot of headroom
under the Max. Not, you know, let's be more. We're probably going to have to deﬁne some case by
case approach to using a sill in that case, but in that scenario you know district applicant we're
going to have to get together to ﬁgure out exactly how to proceed. That's the PSD source impact
analysis in regards to two 305. The next PSD provision is 22306. The additional impact analysis. And
here there's two elements to it. We have to look at impacts on soils and vegetation and visibility.
And we need to include impacts from associated. This is growth associated with the facility that
may have emissions that aren't coming from the facility itself. I think associated growth is not a big
concept in the Bay Area because the idea is if you're building a fact. And you're going to need a
bunch of workers and stuff, and there's no housing for them in the vicinity of the. You know you're
going to have to have housing that gets built for them in schools and all that infrastructure and stuff.
If you're building a big factory out in the middle of nowhere, you know, maybe Elon Musk's battery
factory in Nevada or something like that would be. Scenario. But in the Bay Area, you know we have.
A very big workforce and we've got kind of a A well developed network of of other facilities that
would be you know supporting the facility and so forth. I don't think we're going to have a lot of
situations where there's signiﬁcant associated growth in the Bay Area. But it's a required element of
the analysis you're going to have to at least check it off and think about it and address whether.
Once you ﬁgure out what your associated growth is, if any, you take your project emissions plus any
emissions from associated growth. And you have to ﬁgure out what impact on soils and vegetation
is going to be an impact on visibility is going to be. Interestingly, there are no standards for any of
this stuff. It just says you've got to evaluate it to see whether there's going to be any impacts. Could
have a big impact. You're not violating the PSD requirements, you just sort of have to disclose that
and put it out there. That may be useful actually, because you're probably going to have to do SQA
for a big project like. So maybe that plays into the SQL analysis, but for PSD purposes for 22306
purposes you're not actually going to have you know anything that keeps you from getting your PSD
permit. There's details here on how to do that analysis. We've pointed to some of the guidance in
the book here, but seeing as we only have about 15 minutes left, I'm not going to go into great
details about doing that. Probably just be hiring consultants to have expertise in doing that kind of
thing in the SQL context anyway. To handle those parts of this analysis. So that's the end of the PSD
portions of this. We've now come up through 22306. So in the substantive standards, in two 2-3
hundreds, we have three more to get through. And then there's couple of miscellaneous things at
the end, we've got about 15 minutes left. So we'll just crank through the rest of these. The ﬁrst
additional substantive requirement is this class One protection area requirement that I talked
about and this is something that's hit in the PSD requirements, but it also is required for major. Your
non attainment pollutant projects as. And so that's why I put this into a slightly different category
here. Umm, these provisions apply to PSD projects. Because it's the PSD requirements and then
also to major facilities and major modiﬁcations as we've deﬁned them in our regs. Actually I've got a
typo. Major modiﬁcations is 22218. 22217 is. Major facilities and it's the sort of 100 ton per year
threshold that we've been talking about and a major modiﬁcation is an increase over the
signiﬁcance threshold. And it applies to these facilities if they're located within 100 kilometers of a
Class 1 area. As a point raises, the only one within the Air district. There's also two that are within
100 kilometers of our boundaries, Pinnacle's National Monument and the Ventana Wilderness,
down to the South of us. Technically, you could be right on the border and to the South and within
100 kilometers one of these class one areas, in which case you would have to think about this stuff.
The regulations say that if you are subject to this, then you have to do a Class 1 area analysis. You
submit it to us and we pass it on to the federal land manager for the Class 1 area, the federal land
manager is the one I should move. To this slide, the federal land manager is the one who is
responsible for taking care of air quality within the Class 1. That is, the person who is primarily going
to be reviewing this and, you know, signing off on this. But the requirement is that you have to do it
when you apply to us and then we pass it on to the Class 1 area, federal land manager. Then the
federal land manager. Looks at it, and if they think that there's going to be an impact to any air
quality related value within the Class 1 area, they can object during the PSD permitting. The NSR
permitting process and if we agree, then we will deny the permit or, more likely, we will work with
the applicant and the federal land manager to ﬁgure out, you know, changes to the project or
mitigations or that kind of thing which. Avoid those impacts and take care of the federal land
managers concern. We don't have to agree. Know we may. We may actually ﬁnd other reasons for
objection, even if the Class 1 area federal land manager doesn't ﬁnd an objection, or at the federal
land manager objects, and we think no, you know, you're off base on that, then we can make our
own determination there. So the federal. Kind of does the analysis in the ﬁrst instance, but we make
the ﬁnal determination on whether the per. So what goes into the Class 1 area impact? Well, you
know primarily this is driven by the federal land manager 'cause. They're the ones are going to be
evaluating it in the ﬁrst instance. So the ﬁrst thing to do is to consult and get a meeting with district
staff and the federal land manager. If you're going to be within 100 kilometers and have to do one of
these things. The basic regulatory requirement is to is to evaluate air quality related values, which is
not really deﬁned other than it includes visibility. You're going to have to see what the federal land
manager thinks about what air quality related values are important. There's some guidance out
there and we talk about the guidance in our manual here. The the main things in the guidance that
the federal land managers are looking at are vegetation impacts and deposition into soils or water
bodies within the Class 1 area. So interestingly, when we talk about vegetation, we talk about soils
and water bodies. It sounds a lot like what we were just talking about in the additional impacts
analysis that we had to do. Where you look at visibility and soils and vegetation, so umm, you know
my point of advice here is that. If you get a Class 1 area impact analysis, think very carefully about
how you're going to handle the additional impacts analysis requirement for PSD project and how
you're going to handle this Class 1 area impact analysis because there's a lot of overlap there. And
then it's also going to overlap with the SQL analysis as. There are different regulatory, you know
requirements, so they may have little bit different bells and whistles that you've got to keep in mind.
And you want to make sure you're straight on all of those, but because there's so much overlap
there as you're planning out, how are you going to address all these things in your application? That
kind of thing? Makes sense to think about them holistically and you know, maybe you need a
biologist to go out and look at soil and vegetation because your additional impact analysis. Well,
that same survey could also make sure it hits whatever the federal land manager wants to hit. Hit to
see whether there's going to be any concerns about deposition onto soils or water bodies within
that Class 1 area. That's just a good piece of information to keep in mind. So that's 22307 and the
Class 1 area impact analysis. Another very important requirement. This is one of the last you know,
sort of super important things that we have. I. To make sure you're aware of is this new nax
protection requirement, which I pointed out at the beginning, which is coming down the. Pipe this is
a requirement that you have to demonstrate that your project is not going to cause an exceedance
of any Nac's. Now it's very similar to the concept with PSD that we just talked about of
demonstrating that you're not going to have an exceedance of the. Next, except. That this provision
brings down the threshold, the regulatory threshold for having to do it. So for PSD you have to have
a. You have to be at a major facility and you have to have a signiﬁcant net increase this requirement.
Takes away that major facility threshold. So any project at any facility that will have a signiﬁcant net
increase gets caught up in. It's not going to it's not going to include a lot of like really small projects
because you do have to have that signiﬁcant net increase going to have a signiﬁcant net increase
over the 40 tons per year of Knox or VOC or so 2 or 10 tons per. Of PM 10 or 15 tons per year of PM
2.5. I've got those backwards. And those are pretty high thresholds. And it's a, you know, there's the
netting concept as well. You don't have to be a major. So if you have one of those increases, even if
you're not at a major facility, you've got to do this demonstration to show that you're not going to.
Cause and exceedance of the next. Also, it applies for all Nac's except for ozone. It's much harder to
model ozone because it's not just. You don't just do dispersion modeling. You've got to ﬁgure out
how the different things come together, and you're going to cause ozone. But it does apply to the
nax even where we are out of attainment. Technically designated as non attainment because we
actually have clean data, we are factually in attainment with all of the nacks other than ozone. We
will have a little bit of headroom to play with for all of the nacks there. Maybe small in some cases,
but there at least is a little bit of headroom. So those are the two principal distinctions. Is that the
PSD modeling under 305? If we're designated as non attainment for PM 2.5, for example, we're
designated as non attainment. You don't have to do. The modeling under PSD, but you do under the
Max protection requirement and then also we don't have that major facility threshold. So even for
facilities less than that, you will have to do this under 22305 or you didn't have to do it under 22308
or. Didn't have to do it under 22305. But the approach is exactly the same as the PSD modeling. So
what this provision is saying is we're changing the thresholds a little bit, but the approach is exactly
the. And so you go through that process that I talked about before with the impact area and the sills
and all that kind of stuff. Now, if you if you have done your analysis under 22305 for the PSD, in most
cases you're also going to have done your analysis under 22308 because they're very similar. It's
just that 22308 has a little bit larger. Universe of potential applications that it might pick up. Umm.
That's the next protection requirement, 22308 in a nutshell, this is new and we've never. It before. At
least not recently. So it's a new addition in the regulations and it's going to mean that there's a little
bit more, potentially some modelling analysis that needs to get done for projects that are subject to
this. Just to round out what's in two in the 22300 section, we have these last two provisions, 223.
22310 these are the same as used to be under the old. They're really just renumbered here if you're
a major facility over the major facility thresholds, you have to do compliance demonstration that
certiﬁes that all your other facilities within the California are in compliance with all your regulations.
And then also, there's this provision for if you build something under an authority to construct. But
you can't comply with the permit conditions and the authority to construct then we're not going to
give you a permit to operate. Because you got to build what's out there in compliance with the
conditions that we put into the into the authority to construct and there be a there'll be a sort of
consultation period back and forth. If you fail one source test, that doesn't necessarily mean you're
out of. It means we then go look at, you know, what happened. You know how you're going to ﬁx this
situation so you can show that you. All right. We now have only 5 minutes left to go through the
other miscellaneous revisions here. So let me just hit the most important ones. So we can end on
time, although I'm happy to stay around and answer some questions as well afterwards. As I
mentioned at the outset, we revised our notice and comment thresholds. We used to have notice in
common only if you are a major modiﬁcation or major facility, you had to be over those major
facility thresholds. We are now bringing the threshold down so that. It's any application, any project
that involves a signiﬁcant increase. So similar with what we did with the nax protection. You don't
have to be a major facility anymore, but you do still have to have a signiﬁcant. So we're not going to
pick up the most of the real ticky tacky tiny projects, but any project with a signiﬁcant increase now
has to do notice in comment. You don't have to be over that. Facility threshold. We're also
specifying that we're going to be doing notice on our website. If you're less than that major facility
threshold, it's only going to be website. So that's actually good because you know website notice is
not going to delay the process as much as having to put it into the newspaper and all that kind of
stuff. If you're over the major facility threshold, you still have to do the newspaper notice and all of
that, and it's got to go up on the website that used to be our practice for a lot of our controversial
permits. Least that's now going to be mandatory in all cases for anybody who's over this new
revised signiﬁcant increase. Threshold. We made some changes to our accelerated permitting
program. This is really just clariﬁcations of how it works for certain scenarios. You can submit your
application, you can get a temporary permit during the application process and then you don't have
to wait for your authority to construct. Actually, an exemption from the authority to construct a
requirement. As long as you get your temporary permit and you can use that temporary permit while
you're waiting for the permit, the full permit analysis to go through the process. Portable sources we
used to have. There's two concepts with portable sources. One is for portable sources that you
might want to use anywhere around California. You know, in a portable engine or something like
that, you can register those sources with the state of California under the perp program, and then
you use them anywhere within California. If you have a portable source, you just want to use
anywhere within the district. You can get a rent, you can get a permit from us that allows you to use
it anywhere within the district. Not for anywhere around the state. It's just within the district that
you can use it. In multiple locations and we had this kind of confusing deﬁnition of portable that
applied for both worlds and it really wasn't clear how it. Applied and there was a lot of overlap there,
so we've clariﬁed how these two things work. Have one set of provisions that applies for those perp
registered. You don't have to get a district permit. You use that perp registration for every district,
including ours. Or if it's a district, a multiple location project. Multi location source within the
district. You just get that district permit and you can use it anywhere within our district. We clariﬁed
for AG. There's an exempt for ag sources. Ag sources want to do. Composting or processing of
animal waste? Kind of stuff. And sometimes they need to mix in. Some non ag materials to get the
compost mixed right so that they can sell it or whatever they want to do with it. We have clariﬁed
that a source like that can still take advantage of the ag exemption if it uses some non ag materials,
but only up to a 500 ton per year threshold. That was never clear in our old. I think we had a policy
on that that's now in the rules. We eliminated the space heater exemption, which was kind of
redundant for various reasons. We've clariﬁed this provision for adding fugitive components. If the
only changes you're making on a process unit, say a reﬁner or something like that, the only changes
you're making are to add, you know some valves or ﬂanges or something like that that. That is
subject to an. You don't have to get an NSR permit for that subject to some of these restrictions
here, you can't be making a substantive change to the underlying process unit. You can't be
debottlenecking. There's a limitation on how many of those fugitive components you can take
advantage of this exemption. During a a year, that kind of. But we sort of clariﬁed some of those
details on how that exemption works going forward. Some other exemptions we've made some
minor language revisions without changing substance. See those in the exemption provisions IN21.
We kind of mixed around how or changed around how the application requirements work. 221202 is
a deﬁnition of complete application and some of the for historical reasons. Some of the substantive
requirements for what goes into a permit application. And other ones were in the provision in
21402, which said an application has to include these elements. So we kind of consolidated all of
that into 1402 and we put in some, you know additional requirements for things like the information
that has to come in for PSD projects. So now you will ﬁnd all of the requirements of what has to go
in your application in 21402. We put in this provision for SQL. What happens if there's a lead agency
that's issued a permit and someone's challenged that, you know, EIR and elite agency
determination and you've got a permit with us as well? Well, it seemed at the time like it might be a
good idea to say let's not issue our permit until we see how the litigation plays out for that EIR that's
been Challen. Things we put in a provision allowing some delay there. We subsequently realized
there is a provision in the SQL guidelines that says you shouldn't wait. So that's now in there that
allows us to wait, but the directive to our engineering division staff is let's not wait because the SQL
requirements say don't wait. You'll see that in there, but we're not going to be taking advantage of it.
You know, we'll issue our district permit, but obviously not going to go forward and start building a
thing because you still got your, you know, county land use permit or whatever it is. Up in litit. We
put in this provision, this is kind of. We had a provision that said once you get your authority to
construct, you can have a start up period for 90 days, extendable to 180 days. During which time
you build your source, you do your source testing and then you get your permit to operate. We found
that there may be situations where it takes longer than 180. You know, there may be a
commissioning period and all that kind of stuff. In that case, we now can go longer than 180 days as
long as there's a demonstrated need for it. We clariﬁed a couple of legal principles that have always
been adherent in all this stuff, but I think it's nice to have the. And the regulations? One is we've
always had this doctrine sort of implied conditions. If you submit an application to us and say
you're going to build something according to the plans that you submit. We've sort of implicitly say
yeah, we're giving you a permit to build that thing as you applied for it. We may not put in permit
conditions for every little aspect of what was in your application. But still you know if that was what
you applied for, that's what we gave you a permit to. And so we're going to hold you to those things,
even if there isn't a speciﬁc emissions limit or something like that, as long as it's material to the
permitting decision. If it's something that doesn't really make any difference, you would have gotten
the permit. What you said on that point in your application, that's not really material. If it was
something you said in your application that was material to the permitting decision, yet that's what
we gave you the permit for. You've got to do your project according to what you applied. 4. With us
and we've, we've always had that you know, sort of implicit concept which is, you know, implicit just
in the way a permit system works. But we've put in a provision that clariﬁes that explicitly EPA
wanted to put us this provision that says you've got to comply with all applicable regulations even if
you get a permit. Kind of obvious. You don't exempted from applying with regulations just because
you get a permit. EPA made us put that in to make it explicit. We've got this provision that says the
general rules in regards to one apply to all the more speciﬁc. Provisions into two and two, four and
so forth. So you know a general deﬁnition of a facility or something like that in two, one applies to
each of the speciﬁc rules that come after it. We also have some places where there's little
explanatory notes that we put in to help the reader kind of understand what the regulations mean.
We clarify that those are not binding regulations, those are just kind of reader aids. As you've seen.

Yeah.

Yeah. Well, you know, it's a concept that does not lend itself to. Laying out a speciﬁc, you know list
of here are the things that are material and. Are things that are not. It's very case by case and so you
know, there's a concept of material and you know, I would say if you have a question, you probably
better ask. If you think it's close enough, call that you think that you want to make sure that we're on
board with what you think. You probably should ask. I guess is the best way to. And the question, by
the way is you know, is there a speciﬁc way with knowing what, what is material and what is not
material? And the answer is you know beyond just saying you know material is what it means and
leaving it to case by case situations that. Come up in the. There's really no way of specifying ahead
of time. You know, with any degree of speciﬁcity at all, this is what's going to be material and not
material in any speciﬁc situation. Gonna be case by case.

Yeah.

Yet the question is, you know, what is the operator on the ground do day by day trying to deal with
this concept. You know, I would suggest that, you know, if the facility has a consultant, you know, go
through the application materials and come up with a list. You know, these are the important things.
That the operator needs to know about and you mentioned emission limits. Well, those are
obviously not implied conditions. Are. That's actually in the permit. You know well, I think an
operator on the ground in a facility is going to be looking at whatever is in the standard operating
procedures or the list of you know the checklist or the things you got to comply with that should be
posted, you know next to. Piece of equipment or in the training and that kind of stuff. I think that's
the best way to address that situation. As I mentioned before, we've really reorganized and
overhauled the way the whole regulation is laid out and you will see that. And I've tried to go through
the highlights of what is a substantive change and what isn't. I also want to point out that in the
back of this book, we have correlation tables that there's one table that lists in order all the old
provisions in old regulations, and then it gives you the corresponding new provision. And then the
second table goes through all the. Provisions and gives you the corresponding old provision. If you
little bit confused about where something went or where something came from, you can use those
tables there in the back of the handbook here to ﬁgure out you know how to trace from 1:00 to the
other. That's a nice little feature that we. I mentioned that we have these provisions in Regulations 2
in two, four for converting existing PM10 emission reduction credits, banked credits. You know
nothing more to say about those other than that processes out there. If you own bank credits,
consider taking advantage of it. And we made these changes in two, six that have not yet taken
effect. The only one really here to talk about is the case by Case Mac requirement. This is a
requirement EPA Congress set up this requirement that EPA had to establish these niche.
Establishing Mac standards. But Congress didn't trust EPA to do the mall on time, according to the.
So they put in this provision that said, if EPA misses its deadlines, then the individual permitting
agencies have to do a case by case analysis of what will be required. You're supposed to do it in the
title 5 permitting process. For some reason, historically it ended up in our regulations process,
which is kind of a problem because if your grandfather's Taurus, you could go for a long time without
ever triggering regulations when you were supposed to be doing these things. You know in your Title
5 permit. So we moved the case by Case Mac requirement out of two, two into two six. Where it's.
Problem is, EPA has approved 22, so the old case by Case Mac requirement has gone away. But
they haven't approved 26 yet, so we don't have a new case by Case Mac requirement explicitly in
Title 5. Have this doughnut hole. I'm thinking that it's not going to come up very often. You know, we
we don't get this situation with missed deadlines for knee shafts and stuff. Currently I asked some
of our engineers if this has come up at all recently and the answer was. So I'm I'm thinking it's not
going to come up, at least not between now and when EPA approves our our regulations, ﬁve Title 5
program. And in the unlikely event that it does, our engineers are going to deal with this as a Title 5
applicable requirement. If you guys know Title 5, you have to comply and implement all applicable
requirements, which is a pretty broad deﬁnition. We will just treat this case by Case Mac
requirement as an applicable requirement, so we will make sure it gets addressed in Title 5. That
way as it should be, you know to the extent that it ever comes up. In the interim period until EPA
approves our regulations. 6 revisions. So that's it. We are unfortunately 10 minutes. I thank you for
your patience as you will have seen, there's an awful lot of information here and so we had to.
Through this super. Quickly, you know, we are here to answer questions. If you have questions that
come up, there's a lot more information in this handbook as we talked about. There's more
information in the staff report. This is available on our. The book is going to be available in our in
PDF form on our website as well. And of course, you know, we're always available to answer
questions and talk to folks about speciﬁc situations that come up. With that, I thank you all very
much for your time and have a Good Friday afternoon. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
