                                                                               Last Updated 2002

POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURE

Interpretation of BACT

For ease in permit application review, the above definition of BACT can be broken down to two
general categories: 1) "technologically feasible and cost-effective" and 2) "achieved in practice."
The first category is a more stringent level of BACT control and is technology forcing; it
generally refers to advanced control devices or techniques. The control equipment or technology
must be commercially available, and demonstrated effective and reliable on a full scale unit and
shown to be cost-effective on a dollars per ton of pollutant removed basis. The actual cost
analysis methodology will be discussed later in this section. Note that the District BACT
definition, developed under CARB guidelines, does not explicitly require that the control be
demonstrated for any specific length of time. However, District staff in reviewing BACT
performance data must make the engineering determination that the control would reasonably be
expected to perform for a sufficient duration to make the control option cost-effective. Often,
control techniques under the technologically feasible/cost-effective category are technology
transfers from successful applications on similar types of equipment or emission streams. In that
case, the control has been "achieved in practice" (the second BACT category) on a similar source
or equipment category, but has not been used for the particular source or equipment in question.
A feasibility and cost-effectiveness analysis would then be necessary.

In general, cost effectiveness analysis is done on a source by source basis. However, if a group
of sources, each of which triggers a BACT review on its own, emits a common pollutant(s) with
similar wastestream characteristics, and the sources are configured in such a manner that they
could share a common abatement device, then the control costs can be shared proportionately
and the cost-effectiveness determination made accordingly.

The second BACT category, "achieved in practice", applies to the most effective emission
control device already in use or the most stringent emission limit achieved in the field for the
type and capacity of equipment comprising the source under review and operating under similar
conditions, e.g., process throughput and material usage, hours of operation, site-specific
limitations or opportunities, etc.. For example, the control device performance or emission limit
has already been verified by source tests or other appropriate documentation approved by this
District or another California air district.

A user of the BACT/TBACT Workbook would go to the appropriate source or equipment
category listing in Sections 2 through 11, and review the BACT 1 entry "Technologically
Feasible/Cost Effective" as the candidate required BACT. Only if proven not technologically
feasible and cost effective for the particular application under permit review would the BACT
requirement default to BACT 2 "Achieved in Practice" for which case a cost analysis is not
necessary. In some cases, an intermediate level of control between BACT 1 and BACT 2 may
prove to be cost effective and appropriate.
Where no BACT determination has been made to date in this workbook or if a determination
needs to be updated or reviewed, potential sources of BACT and TBACT determination
information include the CAPCOA/CARB BACT Clearinghouse, the EPA BACT/LAER
Clearinghouse, the South Coast Air Quality Management District BACT Guideline,
determinations made by other air districts, and published, independently verified equipment
performance and operating data. It is important to note that a listing in, for example, the
CAPCOA/CARB BACT Clearinghouse does not necessarily mean that that particular
determination is BACT or TBACT for the Bay Area Air Quality Management District; the listing
may merely be a candidate BACT or TBACT for this District. Recall that BACT is the most
effective emission control or the most stringent emission limitation and for the "achieved in
practice" category, does not require a cost-effectiveness justification. The calculation procedure
is shown below in the Cost Effectiveness Determination for BACT section for cost-effectiveness
for the "technologically feasible/cost-effective" BACT category.

Interpretation of TBACT

For the majority of applications, TBACT is the same as BACT, and the BACT/TBACT
Workbook determinations presented in Sections 2 through 11 identify TBACT as such. In most
cases, the use of TBACT will result in residual health risks that are within acceptable levels. In
some cases, however, additional risk reduction measures may be needed for a project to be
approved. The need for risk reduction measures is generally related to a source's proximity to
residential receptors or other areas where the public exposure may occur. For example,
additional risk reduction measures are generally required to mitigate fugitive emissions from a
perchloroethylene dry cleaning facility located in an apartment building. The need for, and extent
of, additional risk reduction measures is determined on a case-by-case basis through site-specific
health risk assessment.

While TBACT is driven by risk reduction and there are no specific cost effectiveness triggers,
the economic impact of achieving the toxic emission reductions must be taken into consideration,
as discussed in Introduction. The fact that TBACT is generally the same as BACT demonstrates
these implicit cost considerations. Similarly, the criteria of commercial availability, reliability,
and demonstrated full scale operation and performance apply to TBACT as well as BACT.

In addition to the data sources cited in Interpretation of BACT above, EPA's MACT Database
and CARB's Air Toxic Control Measures (ATCMS) guidance documents can be searched.
Specific TBACT determinations that have been made by the Bay Area Air Quality Management
District for commonly permitted source categories and equipment are identified in Sections 2
through 11.

Cost Effectiveness Determination for BACT

For the purpose of calculating emission control cost-effectiveness for BACT, the Bay Area Air
Quality Management District has adopted the "levelized cash flow method", otherwise
commonly referred to as the annualized cost method. The annualized method is simple to use and
appropriate for the kinds of abatement projects proposed in the great majority of the District's
permit applications. It has been approved for use by the California Air Resources Board's Office
of Air Quality Planning and Liaison and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency's Office of
Air Planning and Standards.

The cost-effectiveness of an abatement system or strategy is defined as the ratio of the
annualized cost of that abatement system over the reduction in annual pollutant emissions
achieved by the system for the pollutant in question. Cost-effectiveness can be estimated as
follows:

Cost-effectiveness =
(Annualized Cost of Abatement System ($/yr)) / (Reduction in Annual Pollutant Emissions
(ton/yr))

The reduction in annual pollutant emissions is the expected decrease in the source's pollutant
emissions from its baseline uncontrolled level, achieved by the installation of the abatement
system under review. This annual reduction can be calculated as the difference in emissions with
and without the abatement system, using District-approved standard emission factors or source
test data and the permitted annual usage or throughput limits expected in the operating permit.
Simply put,

Reduction in Annual Pollutant Emissions (ton/yr) =
Baseline Uncontrolled Emissions - Control Option Emissions

As noted above, the emissions reductions are calculated using realistic upper boundary operating
assumptions (permit limit conditions).

The annualized cost of the abatement system can be estimated from the installed cost of the
control and its expected annual operating and maintenance costs.

Annualized cost = Direct Costs + Indirect Costs

where Direct Costs (Sum of the Following):
Labor
Raw Materials
Replacement Parts
Utilities

and Indirect Costs (Sum of the Following):
Overhead (80% of Labor Costs)
Property Tax (1% of Total Capital Cost)
Insurance (1% of Total Capital Cost)
General & Administrative (2% of Total Capital Cost)
Capital Recovery (CRF x Total Capital Cost)

where Total Capital Cost = Installed Equipment Cost
The capital recovery factor (CRF) recognizes the time value of money and converts the up front
capital cost (the installed equipment cost) to an annualized cost.

The capital recovery factor (CRF) is given by:

       i (1 + i)n
CRF = --------------
      (1 + i)n - 1

where i = interest rate (assume i = 0.06, as determined below)

and n = lifetime of abatement system (assume n = 10 years unless shown to be different).

For example, when i = 0.06 (6 percent interest rate) and n = 10, the capital recovery factor CRF
= 0.136.

The current District policy regarding the interest rate (to be used in cost-effectiveness
calculations) is similar to the guidelines used by the California Air Resources Board. First, take
as a benchmark the interest rate on United States Treasury Securities with a maturity that most
closely approximates the project horizon (typically 10 years), add 2 percentage points for
incremental risk, and then round the total up to the next higher integer. Use of the 10-Year
Treasury Note interest rate (yield) averaged over the previous 6 months will dampen the daily
fluctuations of that index. And the addition of two percentage points and rounding up to the next
higher integer rate will reflect more closely market conditions while adding further assurance
that the project can be financed near or below that final calculated interest rate.

For example, the benchmark average 10-Year Treasury note interest rate for the first six
months of 2003 was 3.77%. Adding 2 percentage points and rounding up results in the
currently recommended 6% interest rate for cost-effectiveness calculations. This
methodology for determining the interest rate can be easily followed; the relevant Treasury note
data are readily available from financial publications or the Internet. The interest rates resulting
from this methodology are more reflective of market conditions rather than the single fixed
number originally used by the BACT/TBACT Workbook. Furthermore, use of this interest rate
methodology would have generally followed the interest rates used by CARB and U.S. EPA
since the initial publication of this BACT/TBACT Workbook on June 30, 1995. Looking back,
the 10-Year Treasury Note averaged over the first half of 1995 was 7.05%. Had the current
District methodology been followed at that time, the calculated interest rate would have been
7.05 + 2.0 = 9.05  rounded up to 10%, which was exactly the interest rate recommended by the
BACT/TBACT Workbook at initial publication.

For simple cases of cost-effectiveness determinations where the details of operating and
maintenance costs, etc. are not readily available, a rough estimate of cost-effectiveness can be
obtained as follows:

Annualized Cost =
Installed Equipment Cost x
[ Capital Recovery Factor + Tax Factor + Insur. Factor + G & A Factor + Annual
Operating/Maintenance Factor ]

where:
CFR = 0.136
Tax = 0.01
Insur. = 0.01
G&A = 0.02
O&M = 0.05

It should be reiterated that this estimation method is to be used as a first cut projection when case
or site specific information is not available and not necessarily as a final cost-effectiveness
determination. However, it can be useful for eliminating extreme control options or identifying
control strategies worthy of further consideration.

Finally, is clear that cost-effectiveness needs to be determined or reviewed on a case-by-case
basis. Inherent physical constraints on the source or at the site can significantly increase the cost
of the abatement system under review. Similarly, operational constraints can affect the cost-
effectiveness figure by increasing or decreasing the potential annual emissions reduction.
However, these operational constraints should be reflected in enforceable conditions in the
permit to operate (e.g., throughput or usage limits).

Examples of cost-effectiveness calculations are given in Appendix C1 and Appendix C2.

Maximum Cost Guidelines for BACT

As noted above, for BACT determinations based on the "achieved in practice" category, no cost
analysis is necessary. For the "technologically feasible/cost-effective" BACT determinations, the
District has adopted guidelines for the maximum cost per ton of air pollutants controlled that
would be considered cost-effective. These guideline cost maximums are consistent with the
broad guidelines provided by the California Air Resources Board's Office of Air Quality
Planning and Liaison. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District's guideline cost limits are
as follows:

Pollutant Maximum Cost ($/ton)
POC = 17,500
NOx = 17,500
SO2 = 18,300
CO      n/d
PM10 = 5,300
NPOC = 17,500

Note that the cost-effectiveness trigger for NOx has been lowered to 17,500 dollars per ton,
down from the 24,500 figure of an earlier BACT Workbook draft. This brings the cost-
effectiveness trigger for NOx in line with that for precursor organic emissions, and consistent
with Regulation 2, Rule 2, Section 302, which allows the interchangeability of NOx and POC
emission offsets.

For spray booth coating operations, the following cost limits apply for controlling POC or NPOC
emissions:

A. Maximum cost of 17,500 $/ton for the following spray booth coating operations:
i) Aerospace parts coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 29.
ii) Motor vehicle, rework/body shop coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 45.
iii) Motor vehicle, assembly plant coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 13.
iv) Coating operations which have reduced VOC emissions by < 35% through the use of low
VOC coatings and/or high transfer efficiency methods.
B. Maximum cost of 13,750 $/ton for the following spray booth coating operations:
i) Wood products coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 32.
ii) Coating operations which have reduced VOC emissions by > 35% to < 80% through the use
of low VOC coatings and/or high transfer efficiency methods.
C. Maximum cost of 10,000 $/ton for the following spray booth coating operations:
i) Flat wood coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 23.
ii) Metal coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 19.
iii) Plastic coating operations complying with Regulation 8, Rule 31.
iv) Coating operations which have reduced VOC emissions by > 80% through the use of low
VOC coatings and/or high transfer efficiency methods.

The lower maximum cost allowed for specific spray booth coating operations is a recognition
that these specific operations have already significantly reduced their VOC emissions through
the use of lower VOC coatings and/or higher transfer efficiency methods. These emission
reductions are reflected in the more stringent requirements required under their applicable
Regulation 8 rules. The high costs of add-on BACT controls such as afterburners and carbon
adsorption units, relative to the costs of spray booths, was also taken into consideration in setting
the above cost limits.

The maximum cost of 17,500 $/ton will apply to any coating operation not listed above. Spray
booth coating operations proposing to use lower VOC content coatings and/or higher transfer
efficiency methods than those required by the existing applicable rules may be allowed to use a
lower maximum control cost, down to a minimum of 10,000 $/ton.

If the cost-effectiveness number for a specific pollutant, calculated according to the procedures
of this Workbook, is less than the corresponding limit listed above, then the emission control or
emission limitation in question would be considered to be cost-effective for the source under
review operating under typical representative conditions.
