                     STAFF REPORT
                                 FOR
                           PROPOSED
   TECHNICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS
                                 TO
NEW SOURCE REVIEW AND TITLE V PERMIT PROGRAMS
    Regulation 2, Rule 1 (Permits – General Requirements)
     Regulation 2, Rule 2 (Permits – New Source Review)
     Regulation 2, Rule 4 (Permits – Emissions Banking)
                             and
    Regulation 2, Rule 6 (Permits – Major Facility Review)




                           October 2017
    [Incorporating Revisions to Earlier Version Issued August 2017]
STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6




                    [This page intentionally left blank]
               STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .......................................................................................... 1

II. REGULATORY BACKGROUND.............................................................................. 4
     A. The Federal and State Regulatory Context ...................................................... 4
        1. New Source Review ........................................................................................ 4
        2. Title V .............................................................................................................. 5
     B. The Air District’s NSR Pre-Construction Permitting Program ........................ 6
        1. NSR Applicability – New and “Modified” Sources ............................................ 6
        2. Substantive NSR Requirements ...................................................................... 7
        3. Historical Development of the Air District’s NSR Program .............................. 8
     C. The Air District’s Title V Operating Permit Program ....................................... 9
     D. Developments Since the Most Recent Amendments to the NSR and
        Title V Programs in 2012 .................................................................................... 9

III. PROPOSED AMENDMENTS ................................................................................. 12
     A. Revisions to Address “Deficiency Items” Identified by EPA ........................ 12
        1. Agricultural Source Terms ............................................................................. 12
        2. Federal Regulatory Terms Incorporated by Reference in “Federal
            Backstop” Test .............................................................................................. 14
        3. Making PSD Requirements Applicable to Major Sources of Non-
            Attainment Pollutants .................................................................................... 15
        4. Requiring EPA Approval To Use Alternative Computer Models for Air
            Quality Analysis ............................................................................................. 16
        5. Facility Categories For Which Fugitive Emissions Must Be Included in
            PTE Calculations ........................................................................................... 16
        6. Requirement to Evaluate Impacts on Class I Areas ...................................... 17
        7. Time Limits for Providing Offset Refunds ...................................................... 18
        8. Offsets Equivalence Demonstration .............................................................. 19
        9. Emission Reduction Credit for Shutting Down “Fully Offset” Sources ........... 26
        10. Revisions to Banking Provisions ................................................................... 27
     B. Revisions to Address Issues Identified by Air District Staff Based on
        Recent Experience in Implementing the 2012 Amendments ........................ 28
        1. Section 2-1-218 – Definition of “Regulated Air Pollutant” .............................. 28
        2. Section 2-1-413 – Time Limits On Operation of Sources Under Multiple-
           Location Permits ........................................................................................... 29
        3. Sources Operated By Agents/Contractors On Behalf of Facility Owners ...... 30


                                                                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS      i
              STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


      C. Revisions to Address the Supreme Court’s UARG v. EPA Decision ........... 30

IV. ADDITIONAL REVISIONS CONSIDERED DURING RULE DEVELOPMENT
    PROCESS .............................................................................................................. 33
      A. Air District Pre-Approval for Petroleum Refinery Crude Slate Changes
         (Clean Air Plan Control Measure SS9) ............................................................ 33
      B. Expanded “Best Available Control Technology” Requirement for
         Greenhouse Gases (Clean Air Plan Control Measure SS17) ........................ 35

V. EMISSION REDUCTION AND COMPLIANCE COST IMPACTS .......................... 37

VI. REGULATORY ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS ...................................................... 40
      A. California Health & Safety Code Requirements ............................................. 40
      B. California Environmental Quality Act Requirements .................................... 44
      C. BAAQMD Cost Recovery Policy ...................................................................... 45

VII. PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND PUBLIC COMMENTS ........................................... 46

VIII. CONCLUSION AND STAFF RECOMMENDATION............................................... 50



APPENDICES:

APPENDIX A – Proposed Amendments
          Proposed Amendments to Regulation 2, Rule 1
          Proposed Amendments to Regulation 2, Rule 2
          Proposed Amendments to Regulation 2, Rule 4
          Proposed Amendments to Regulation 2, Rule 6

APPENDIX B – Responses to Public Workshop Comments




 ii           TABLE OF CONTENTS
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


I.       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

        Staff of the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (Air District or District) are
proposing a number of technical and administrative amendments to two important Air
District permitting programs, the “New Source Review” pre-construction permit program
and the Title V “Major Facility Review” operating permit program. These amendments are
necessary to make certain revisions required by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) so that EPA can fully approve the Air District’s programs under the Clean
Air Act. The amendments will also make revisions identified by Air District staff to help the
programs function more effectively, and will revise the District’s regulations to align them
with a recent Clean Air Act ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court.

        The Air District’s New Source Review (NSR) program is a comprehensive air
permitting program that applies to stationary-source facilities within the District’s
jurisdiction. The NSR program is the Air District’s principal substantive permitting
program, applying to a wide variety of stationary-source facilities throughout the Bay Area.
Whenever a facility wants to install a new source of air emissions or make a modification
to an existing source, the NSR program requires the facility to obtain a permit and
implement state-of-the-art air pollution control technology to limit the source’s emissions.
NSR is a pre-construction permitting requirement, meaning that the facility is required to
obtain its NSR permit before it can begin work on the new source or modification.

         The Air District’s Title V Major Facility Review (Title V) program requires “major”
facilities – those with emissions of over 10, 25, or 100 tons per year, depending on the
pollutant – to obtain operating permits. The Title V operating permit does not impose any
additional substantive requirements on these facilities to limit their emissions. Instead, the
purpose of the Title V permit is to collect all of the substantive emissions control
requirements applicable to the facility under District, state and federal permits and
regulations into one comprehensive document, which improves the transparency and
enforceability of the regulatory requirements for these complex “major” facilities.

      The Air District updated its NSR and Title V regulations most recently in December
of 2012. Since that time, there have been three developments that have given rise to a
need to make further revisions:
     •   EPA has approved (or is in the process of approving) the Air District’s 2012
         revisions as satisfying the requirements of the federal Clean Air Act, with the
         exception of 13 identified “deficiencies.” The District needs to make certain
         revisions to address these deficiency items so that EPA can fully approve the
         District’s NSR program.




                                                                   SECTION I| EXECUTIVE SUMMARY   1
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


     •   In addition, Air District Staff have gained further experience in working with the
         2012 updates since they were adopted, and have identified certain areas where
         additional revisions and clarifications are needed to ensure that the NSR program
         functions as effectively as possible.
     •   Finally, in 2014 the U.S. Supreme Court issued a ruling in Utility Air Regulatory
         Group v. EPA (134 S.Ct. 2427 (2014)) that interpreted several relevant provisions
         of the federal Clean Air Act regarding the Act’s NSR and Title V program
         requirements. The Air District needs to make certain revisions to align the District’s
         regulations with the Supreme Court’s ruling.
Although these necessary changes are relatively minor, and are mostly technical and
administrative in nature, they are important to ensure that the Air District’s NSR and Title
V programs function properly from a legal standpoint. The need for these revisions, and
exactly what they would involve, are discussed in more detail in the subsequent sections
of this Staff Report.

        Air District staff also considered two other more substantive changes to the NSR
program during the rule development process, but are not proposing action on those
issues at this time. The first substantive change was a provision designed to enhance
enforcement of the District’s NSR requirements in situations where petroleum refineries
change the type of crude oil that they process – what is known as the refinery’s “crude
slate.” The Air District committed to addressing this issue under Control Measure SS9 in
the 2017 Clean Air Plan, Spare the Air, Cool the Climate. District staff are deferring
finalizing a proposal on this measure at this time, in order to allow staff to collect additional
information on refinery crude slates and how crude slate changes may affect emissions.
Staff are proposing that the Board of Directors adopt the proposed technical and
administrative amendments now in order to meet EPA’s deadline for making those
changes, and then address the provision covering refinery crude slate changes when staff
have had more time to assess the data being collected under Regulation 12, Rule 15, the
Petroleum Refining Emissions Tracking Rule, in order to develop a carefully-considered
final proposal.

        The second substantive change was a proposal to expand the scope of the Air
District’s existing requirement that facilities use the “Best Available Control Technology”
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from new and modified sources. The Air District
committed to revising this requirement under Control Measure SS17 in the 2017 Clean
Air Plan. However, recent legislation has restricted the District’s legal authority to impose
regulatory limits on CO2 emissions from sources subject to the state’s Cap and Trade
program. This legislative action has effectively prohibited the Air District from moving
forward with this measure as contemplated in Control Measure SS17 – although the Air



 2            SECTION I | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


District will continue to consider possible alternative approaches to address greenhouse
gas pollutants other than CO2 as part of future rule amendments.

       The Air District’s Board of Directors will consider adoption of the Proposed
Amendments at a public hearing scheduled for December 6 th, 2017. Air District staff are
publishing this Staff Report in advance of the public hearing to provide the Board of
Directors and interested members of the public with a detailed explanation of what the
Proposed Amendments will entail and why it is important for the Air District to adopt them.
Air District staff encourage interested members of the public to review this Staff Report,
along with the accompanying drafts of the Proposed Amendments, and to submit any
comments they may have. Further information on public comment opportunities is
provided in Section VII of this Staff Report.

      Readers should also note that Air District staff published an earlier version of these
Proposed Amendments in August, 2017, which were originally scheduled for a public
hearing before the Board of Directors on October 18 th, 2017. Air District staff have made
two further revisions to that earlier version and are now republishing the Proposed
Amendments and re-noticing the proposal to allow members of the public to review and
comment on the revised version. These revisions include:
   ● Some additional revisions to the procedures by which the Air District makes its
     annual demonstration that the “offsets” requirements in the District’s NSR program
     are at least as stringent as what EPA’s federal regulations require; and
   ● Minor revisions to the Air District’s emissions banking provisions in Regulation 2,
     Rule 4, to address deficiencies identified by EPA Region IX on September 14,
     2017.
These further revisions are addressed in more detail in Sections III.A.8. and III.A.10.,
respectively, in this Staff Report. The Air District will consider all comments received on
the earlier version of the Proposed Amendments published in August, 2017, along with
comments received on the current version being published today. Members of the public
do not need to resubmit any comments that were submitted on the August, 2017, version.




                                                                 SECTION I| EXECUTIVE SUMMARY   3
              STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


II.      REGULATORY BACKGROUND

        The Air District’s permit requirements are set forth in District Regulation 2
(Permits). Regulation 2 contains a number of Rules governing various aspects of the
District’s permitting programs, of which four are the subject of the Proposed Amendments:
      ● Regulation 2, Rule 1 (Regulation 2-1), which establishes the general requirements
        that govern all of the permitting provisions in Regulation 2.
      ● Regulation 2, Rule 2 (Regulation 2-2), which contains the specific regulatory
        provisions that implement the Air District’s NSR pre-construction permitting
        program.
      ● Regulation 2, Rule 4 (Regulation 2-4), which helps implement the NSR program in
        Regulation 2-2 by establishing procedures for “banking” emission reductions
        achieved when a source is shut down or curtailed, which can then be used to
        “offset” emissions increases from subsequent projects under the NSR program to
        ensure that there is no net emissions increase from all sources under the program.
      ● Regulation 2, Rule 6 (Regulation 2-6), which contains the regulations that
        implement the Air District’s Title V operating permit program.

     This section provides a background summary of the New Source Review and Title
V permitting programs and the regulations that would be affected by the Proposed
Amendments.

         A.       The Federal and State Regulatory Context

       The Air District’s New Source Review and Title V programs are District regulations,
but the District adopts them within the context of federal and state requirements that
govern how the programs must operate.

                  1.      New Source Review

       The genesis of the New Source Review program comes from the federal Clean Air
Act (CAA). Congress created the federal NSR requirements in the 1977 CAA
Amendments, which specify certain minimum elements that every local NSR program
must contain. The Clean Air Act requires local programs to implement these requirements
through the Act’s system of “cooperative federalism,” under which Congress establishes
minimum requirements that must be in place in every state throughout the country, but
leaves it up to each state or local agency to design its own program best suited to the
needs of its specific situation. Each state or local agency is therefore required to develop
and adopt an NSR program that meets (or exceeds) the minimum requirements of the
federal NSR program, which it must then submit to the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) for review and approval. Once EPA approves the program – as
 4              SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


part of what is known as the State Implementation Plan (SIP) – the program becomes
effective under federal law for purposes of the Clean Air Act.

       In 1988, the California legislature enacted the California Clean Air Act, which
imposes additional state-law NSR permitting requirements. These requirements are in
many ways modeled on the federal NSR program, but go beyond the federal program in
certain aspects. Each air district in California is required to adopt an NSR program that
meets these additional state-law requirements, as well as meeting the federal NSR
program requirements administered by EPA.

        The Air District’s NSR program operates within the overlay of these state and
federal requirements. The Air District has a certain amount of latitude to adopt an NSR
program that is most suited to the specific circumstances facing the San Francisco Bay
Area. But it must at a minimum satisfy the state and federal program requirements, and
it is subject to review and approval by the California Air Resources Board and the federal
EPA to ensure that it does.

              2.      Title V

         The Title V program similarly comes from the federal Clean Air Act. Title V of the
Act was added by Congress in the 1990 CAA amendments, and it requires each state or
local agency to implement an operating permit program for “major” facilities, which are
defined as facilities with the potential to emit more than 100 tons per year of regulated air
pollutants (or, for hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), more than 10 tons per year of any
single HAP or 25 tons per year of multiple HAPs). Title V programs must require major
facilities to obtain an operating permit, which collects all of the various regulatory
requirements applicable to the facility from local, state, and federal regulations and
permits into a single permitting document. Title V does not create any new substantive
regulatory requirements, but it improves the enforceability and transparency of the
existing requirements by consolidating them into one comprehensive permit document.
Having all of the requirements in one place makes it easier for facility staff to understand
what they must do to comply with the applicable air quality regulations; makes it easier
for inspectors to determine whether the facility is complying; and makes it easier for
interested members of the public to understand what emissions sources a facility has,
what regulatory requirements apply, and whether the facility is in compliance. In addition,
the Title V permitting process provides an opportunity to impose monitoring requirements
on emissions sources to ensure that they are in compliance, to the extent that any existing
monitoring requirements may be inadequate.

      As with the NSR requirements, it is up to the Air District to adopt its own Title V
program to satisfy the federal requirements. The Air District retains some flexibility to


                                                           SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND   5
             STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


design its program as appropriate for the Bay Area, but at a minimum it must satisfy the
requirements of the federal Clean Air Act.

        B.       The Air District’s NSR Pre-Construction Permitting Program

                 1.       NSR Applicability – New and “Modified” Sources

        The NSR program in Regulation 2-2 is the Air District’s fundamental permitting
requirement for regulating “criteria” pollutant emissions. (“Criteria” pollutants are regional
air pollutants for which health-based regional ambient air quality standards have been
established.) The program requires a facility to obtain an NSR permit before it can install
a new emission source or make a modification to an existing source. In order to be eligible
for the permit, the facility must implement a number of substantive air pollution control
requirements to limit emissions from the new or modified source.

        The NSR program is aimed at new and modified sources because the installation
of a new source or the modification of an existing source is the most appropriate time to
implement pollution controls. Facilities can incorporate pollution control technologies
most efficiently when they are planning for the installation of new equipment or the
modification of existing equipment. Furthermore, the capital expenditure required for such
pollution control technologies is most appropriate when a facility is installing new
equipment or modifying existing equipment, as the facility will in most cases already be
spending significant amounts for the facility upgrade project. Imposing additional costs to
implement pollution controls is most appropriate at the time when the facility is already
investing in facility improvements for other reasons.

         For all of these reasons, the NSR program applies to new and modified sources.
All of the substantive NSR program requirements in Regulation 2-2 specify that they apply
when the Air District is issuing a permit for a new source or a modified source. “Modified
source” is defined in Regulation 2-1-234 as any physical or operational change to a
source that will result in either (i) an increase in the source’s permitted emissions (or for
sources that are not subject to any permit limits, an increase in the source’s physical
capacity to emit air pollutants); or (ii) a significant increase in the source’s actual
emissions.1 Whenever a facility installs a new source or makes a “modification” to an
existing source within the definition of Regulation 2-1-234, it must obtain an NSR permit
under Regulation 2-2.




1
  The second element of this definition, regarding significant increases in actual emissions, was added in
the 2012 Amendments. In addition, this element applies only to facilities over the “major facility” thresholds
(100 tpy or 250 tpy, depending on the facility). “Major” facilities in the Bay Area include all of the region’s
refineries, as well as a number of other types of facilities such as power plants, large factories, and the like.

    6          SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


              2.      Substantive NSR Requirements

       In order to obtain an NSR permit for a new or modified source, the facility must
comply with the various substantive requirements of the NSR program. These substantive
NSR programs elements vary somewhat depending on the pollutant involved. For
pollutants for which the region is not in attainment of the applicable ambient air quality
standards (“non-attainment pollutants”), the substantive NSR requirements are generally
somewhat more stringent. For pollutants for which the region is in attainment of the
applicable ambient air quality standards (“attainment pollutants”), the substantive
requirements are generally somewhat less stringent, as the region’s air quality challenges
related to those pollutants are by definition not as urgent.

        For non-attainment pollutants, the basic substantive requirements include (i) using
pollution control equipment that limits emissions to the “Lowest Achievable Emissions
Rate” (LAER), which in California is also referred to as the “Best Available Control
Technology” (California BACT); and (ii) “offsetting” any new emissions increases with
emission reductions from existing sources such that there will be no overall emissions
increases from regulated sources throughout the region. These requirements applicable
to non-attainment pollutants are generally referred to as “Non-Attainment NSR.” Both the
federal Clean Air Act and the California Clean Air Act impose Non-Attainment NSR
requirements.

       For attainment pollutants, the basic substantive requirements include (i) using the
“Best Available Control Technology” (BACT) to limit emissions; and (ii) conducting an air
quality impact analysis to ensure that the source being permitted will not jeopardize
continued attainment of the applicable air quality standards or cause other adverse air
quality impacts. These requirements applicable to attainment pollutants are referred to as
“Prevention of Significant Deterioration” (PSD), because the purpose is to prevent the air
quality in cleaner areas from deteriorating towards a non-attainment situation. Only the
federal Clean Air Act imposes PSD requirements; this is not an element required by the
California program.

       This general breakdown between the requirements that apply to non-attainment
pollutants and the requirements that apply to attainment pollutants reflects the minimum
requirement that each NSR program must satisfy under the California and federal Clean
Air Acts. In the Bay Area, however, the Air District goes beyond the minimum
requirements in some respects. The Air District’s NSR program applies certain aspects
of the non-attainment NSR requirements to pollutants for which the region is designated
as attainment. Thus, for example, the Air District applies the LAER/California BACT
emissions control requirements and emissions offset requirements to many of the
attainment pollutants, even though they are legally required only for non-attainment


                                                           SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND   7
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


pollutants. The Air District has always found it important to apply these NSR requirements
more stringently than the bare minimum required by law in order to address the air quality
challenges facing the Bay Area.

      For full details on what the Air District’s NSR program entails, please see District
Regulation 2-2.

              3.      Historical Development of the Air District’s NSR Program

       The Air District’s NSR program traces its history back to the 1970s, with numerous
amendments since that time. The Air District has revised the program during this time
period in order to improve its effectiveness, as well as to keep up with the evolution of the
state and federal NSR requirements (among other reasons). The Air District amended the
NSR regulations most recently in December of 2012 in order to address several issues.

       One primary reason for the December 2012 revisions was to incorporate new
requirements for fine particulate matter (PM2.5). PM2.5 has come under increased
regulatory scrutiny in recent years as medical studies have led to heightened concerns
about the health impacts of high levels of this pollutant. EPA adopted National Ambient
Air Quality Standards for PM2.5 in 2006, and in 2009 EPA designated the Bay Area as
“non-attainment” of the PM2.5 standards. The December 2012 amendments added
permitting requirements for PM2.5 to the Air District’s NSR program.

        A second important reason for the December 2012 revisions was to adopt PSD
requirements (the requirements that apply for attainment pollutants) into the Air District’s
NSR program. For historical reasons, NSR implementation in the Bay Area was for many
years split between the non-attainment NSR requirements, which the Air District
implemented through its own NSR program in District Regulation 2-2, and the PSD
requirements, which were administered under EPA’s federal PSD regulations. This
situation led to confusion and inefficiency, as a single source could be subject to two
separate (but highly similar and overlapping) sets of regulations, and could be required
to obtain two separate permits (containing similar and overlapping permit conditions) for
the same operation. The December 2012 amendments adopted PSD provisions into the
Air District’s NSR program to address this situation. With the Air District having its own
PSD requirements incorporated into its NSR program, there is now one single set of rules
governing all aspects NSR regulation in the Bay Area, making NSR implementation and
compliance simpler and more straightforward for all involved.

        The 2012 Amendments also revised the regulatory language used in the Air
District’s NSR regulations to make the regulations clearer and easier to implement and
enforce. The amendments also revised certain provisions to address concerns raised by
EPA about how the Air District’s program complies with the minimum requirements of the

 8          SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND
             STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


federal NSR program. The bulk of the 2012 Amendments took effect on August 31, 2016,
after approval by EPA as being consistent with the federal NSR program requirements. 2

        C.       The Air District’s Title V Operating Permit Program

       As noted above, the Title V operating permit program does not impose any new
substantive emissions-control requirements, but it enhances the enforceability and
transparency of existing regulatory requirements by collecting all existing substantive
requirements under District, state and federal regulations and permits into a single,
comprehensive permitting document.

        The District’s Title V program was adopted in 1993 in Regulation 2-6. It requires
every “major facility” as defined in Section 2-6-212 to obtain an operating permit, which
must set forth all “applicable requirements” that apply to the facility as defined in Section
2-6-202. The permit application and the District’s review of it must go through a public
process with notice and an opportunity to comment, as set forth in Section 2-6-412. The
District may also impose additional monitoring requirements as necessary to ensure
ongoing compliance with all applicable requirements, per Section 2-6-409. Please see
Regulation 2-6 for full details on what the Air District’s Title V program entails.

       The 2012 amendments affected the Title V regulations primarily with respect to
GHG emissions. EPA began regulating GHG emissions in 2011, when it imposed GHG
emissions standards for cars and light trucks, and the agency took the position that doing
so meant that stationary GHG emissions sources needed to be subjected to Title V
operating permit requirements as well. EPA took the position that Title V programs
needed to require permits for GHG emissions sources with the potential to emit 100,000
tpy CO2e or more. The District’s 2012 Amendments added provisions to Regulation 2,
Rule 6, to require Title V permits for GHG sources at this threshold level, among other
more minor revisions.

        D.       Developments Since the Most Recent Amendments to the NSR and
                 Title V Programs in 2012

      There have been several regulatory developments since the Air District adopted
the most recent revisions in December of 2012 that are relevant here. These recent

2
  The 2012 revisions to the NSR provisions in Regulations 2-1 and 2-2 did not take effect until EPA approved
them effective August 31, 2016. See Final Rule, Revisions to California State Implementation Plan; Bay
Area Air Quality Management District; Stationary Source Permits, 81 Fed. Reg. 50,399 (Aug. 1, 2016),
codified at 40 C.F.R. §§ 52.220(c)(182)(i)(B)(7); 52.220(c)(199)(i)(A)(9); 52.220(c)(202)(i)(A)(2);
52.220(c)(429)(i)(E)(1)&(2); & 52.270(b)(16) (effective Aug. 31, 2016). The 2012 revisions to the banking
provisions in Regulation 2-4 took effect immediately upon adoption on December 21, 2012, however. The
Air District made the banking revisions effective immediately so that affected entities could start using them
immediately to bank their emission reductions pending completion of the EPA approval process.


                                                                SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND   9
                STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


developments have driven the need for the further revisions that are the subject of the
Proposed Amendments.

        One important development is EPA’s approval of the Air District’s revised NSR
program regulations as consistent with the Clean Air Act. EPA approved the District’s
NSR program as a general matter, but subject to a “limited disapproval” requiring the
District to correct certain specific “deficiencies” identified by EPA. 3 EPA’s limited
disapproval requires the Air District to adopt further revisions to its NSR program and
submit them to EPA for approval within 18 months (i.e., by the end of February of 2018).
If the Air District does not do so, EPA has the authority to impose sanctions on the Bay
Area and step in to implement NSR federally within the region. The need to respond to
EPA’s limited disapproval is the primary reason District staff have developed the
Proposed Amendments.

        EPA has also followed a similar process with respect to the banking provisions in
Regulation 2-4, although on a more delayed schedule. EPA did not address the Air
District’s 2012 revisions to its banking regulations in the 2016 limited approval and limited
disapproval of the rest of the District’s NSR regulations. Instead, it has addressed the
banking provisions in a proposed conditional approval published on September 14, 2017.4
EPA is proposing to approve the banking provisions in Regulation 2-4, but conditioned on
the Air District revising the provisions to address some additional deficiencies. This
conditional approval will require the Air District to address these identified banking
deficiencies in the same manner as with the deficiencies identified in the rest of the NSR
provisions discussed in the preceding paragraph. If the Air District does not do so, the
conditional approval will become a disapproval, starting the process outlined above that
can eventually lead to sanctions.

        A second important development is the Supreme Court’s 2014 decision in the
Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA case, 134 S.Ct. 2427 (2014), which held that the
Clean Air Act does not require permits under either the NSR program or the Title V
program for any facility based solely on its GHG emissions. This was a major change
from EPA’s interpretation, which held that a facility can become subject to both permitting
programs based on its GHG emissions alone, even if it does not have emissions of any
other pollutant exceeding the relevant applicability thresholds. The Supreme Court’s
decision still allows EPA to regulate GHG emissions under these permitting programs if
a facility triggers permitting requirements because of other regulated air pollutants
besides GHGs. But the decision means that GHGs cannot, by themselves, make a facility


3
    See ibid.
4
 See Proposed Rule, Revisions to California State Implementation Plan; Bay Area Air Quality Management
District; Emission Reduction Credit Banking, 82 Fed. Reg. 43,202 (Sept. 14, 2017).

    10            SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


subject to permitting requirements under either program. The Proposed Amendments to
the NSR and Title V programs address this development as well.

       In addition to these regulatory developments, Air District staff have also benefitted
from further experience in implementing the regulations as revised in 2012. The Proposed
Amendments are the result of this experience as well, as discussed further in the next
section.




                                                           SECTION II | REGULATORY BACKGROUND   11
              STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


III.     PROPOSED AMENDMENTS

       This section provides a detailed description of each of the proposed revisions to
the Air District’s permitting regulations.

         A.       Revisions to Address “Deficiency Items” Identified by EPA

       As noted above, the Air District’s NSR regulations must be approved by EPA in
order to be effective under the federal Clean Air Act. EPA has approved (or is in the
process of approving) the 2012 Amendments, but subject to a requirement that the District
correct certain “deficiencies” identified by EPA.5 The Proposed Amendments will address
these identified deficiencies, as outlined below.

       These revisions are primarily minor and technical in nature, and they will fulfill the
ultimate intent of the 2012 Amendments. Those amendments were intended to make the
Air District’s NSR program implement all federal NSR requirements consistent with the
federal Clean Air Act. To the extent that any of the specific provisions the Air District
adopted in 2012 Amendments did not fully accomplish that end in the areas identified by
EPA in its limited disapproval, the Proposed Amendments will address any such
oversights. In doing so, these further revisions will ensure that the Air District achieves its
ultimate purpose of implementing an approvable NSR program that satisfies all applicable
requirements of the federal Clean Air Act.

       The paragraphs below outline each of EPA’s identified deficiency items and how
the Proposed Amendments will address it.

                  1.      Agricultural Source Terms

        EPA noted that the terms “agricultural source” used in Section 2-1-239 and “large
confined animal facility” used in Section 2-1-424 rely on definitions and provisions in other
District rules that have not been approved as part of the State Implementation Plan. To
address this concern, the Proposed Amendments remove the language that EPA finds
objectionable, as it is redundant and/or does not serve any regulatory purpose anymore.
These changes will address EPA’s concerns without changing the substantive meaning
of the regulations in any way.

        With respect to Section 2-1-239, this provision sets forth the definition of
“agricultural source” for purposes of Regulation 2, Rule 1. The essential function of the
definition is to specify that an agricultural source is a source of air pollution (or group of

5
  See supra fn. 2 (referencing EPA’s limited approval and limited disapproval of the bulk of the 2012
revisions to the NSR regulations) and fn. 4 (referencing EPA’s proposed conditional approval of the 2012
revisions to the emissions banking provisions in Regulation 2-4).

    12          SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
           STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


such sources located on the same property or on contiguous properties under common
ownership or control) that is used in the production of crops or the raising of fowl or
animals. This is what the definition does in its initial language. After this initial language,
however, the definition then goes on to provide three subsections identifying a number of
different types of sources that are covered by this general language, including confined
animal facilities, internal combustion engines, major facilities, and any other source that
is otherwise subject to Air District regulation. It is this additional language that has given
rise to EPA’s concern. This additional verbiage is redundant, however, because all of
these specific categories of sources are already covered by the general language at the
beginning of the definition referring to “a source” of air pollution that is being used for
agricultural purposes. Since this additional language is not necessary, the simplest way
to address EPA’s concern is to delete it entirely and rely instead on the general language
at the beginning of the regulation. The Proposed Amendments do this, as well as making
some additional grammatical clarifications to the language of the definition.

         With respect to Section 2-1-424, this provision sets forth the procedures that apply
when a source that is exempt from permitting requirements loses its exemption because
of a change in the regulations and must apply for a permit. In most cases, the
owner/operator must submit a complete permit application within 90 days of being notified
by the Air District that the source now requires a permit. For large confined animal
facilities, however, Section 2-1-424 allows 180 days to submit the application. This
provision was added in 2006, when the District started regulating large confined animal
facilities. The Air District did not believe that there actually were any such facilities within
the Bay Area that would have to get permits, but in the event that there were, the District
wanted to provide 180 days for such facilities to submit permit applications, instead of the
default 90 days. This resulted in the language that EPA is concerned about. Now, over a
decade later, it has become clear that the District was correct and that there were not in
fact any such facilities within the Bay Area that became subject to permit requirements
because of the loss of that exemption. As a result, the provision addressing large confined
animal facilities that were in existence as of July 17, 2006, no longer serves any purpose
and can be deleted, which will address EPA’s concern. The proposed revisions to Section
2-1-424 do so, as well as making some grammatical clarifications to the regulatory
language.

       Finally, EPA Region IX staff have also requested that the Air District address a
similar reference to large confined animal facilities in Section 2-1-113.1.2, which is the
exemption for agricultural sources with emissions under 50 tpy. The Air District does not
want to exempt large confined animal facilities from having to obtain a permit, even if their
emissions are below 50 tpy. Accordingly, this exemption is written to apply to agricultural
sources “except for large confined animal facilities subject to Regulation 2, Rule 10.” EPA


                                                             SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   13
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


did not object to this language in its limited disapproval, but EPA Region IX staff have
subsequently identified it and asked the Air District to address it. The Proposed
Amendments address this point by removing the relevant language from Section 2-1-
113.1.2, and instead specifying in the definition of “agricultural source” in Section 2-1-239
that, for purposes of the exemption, agricultural sources do not include commercial
operations that keep and feed large numbers of animals over the thresholds that would
make them ineligible for the exclusion. By restricting the definition of “agricultural source”
in this way, the regulation will limit the scope of the exemption for agricultural sources so
that it does not exempt large animal-feeding operations from Air District permitting
requirements. But it will do so in a way that does not use the language that EPA Region
IX staff asked the Air District to remove.

              2.       Federal Regulatory Terms Incorporated by Reference in “Federal
                       Backstop” Test

       In the 2012 Amendments, the Air District adopted a new applicability provision for
its NSR program to respond to EPA concerns that the District’s existing applicability test
for “modifications” was less stringent than federal requirements. Specifically, EPA was
concerned that a facility could make a change to a source that would constitute a “major
modification” under the federal NSR requirements, but would not be a “modification”
under the District’s NSR program. The District noted that this would be a highly unlikely
scenario, as the District’s “modification” definition is much broader and more stringent
than the federal definition, and EPA agreed. Nevertheless, there was at least a
hypothetical concern that such a scenario could arise, and so the Air District revised its
“modification” definition to address the concern.

        The revision the Air District made to address this concern was to add a second
element to the District’s “modification” definition in Section 2-1-234 to incorporate the
federal “major modification” definition as a “backstop” to the Air District’s longstanding
“modification” test. Under the revised “modification” definition, a change being made at a
source is a “modification” and is subject to NSR permitting requirements if it triggers either
(i) the District’s longstanding “modification” definition (subsection 2-1-234.1), or (ii) EPA’s
“major modification” definition (subsection 2-1-234.2). This second element ensures that
the District’s NSR program cannot be any less stringent than the federal requirements,
as any change that would be subject to the federal program as a “major modification” by
definition will be subject to NSR requirements under the District’s program. The Air District
refers to this second element of the “modification” test as the “Federal Backstop,” as it is
intended as a backstop mechanism to ensure that any change to a source that is not
caught by the District’s longstanding “modification” test in subsection 234.1 will be caught
by the federal “major modification” test in subsection 234.2 (to the extent that it is the kind
of change that should be subject to NSR permitting requirements).

 14          SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


       The Air District implemented this change by incorporating by reference EPA’s
federal regulations defining “major modification” as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Sections 51.165
and 51.166. (See Section 2-1-234.2.) EPA generally approved of this incorporation-by-
reference approach, but it pointed out that some of the language in the specific provisions
the Air District incorporated was not appropriate for the District’s regulatory purposes.
Specifically, EPA noted that some of the language in the federal regulations the District
incorporated establishes what state agencies need to put in their regulatory programs,
and not what individual regulated facilities need to do to comply. Since the District’s NSR
Rule sets forth requirements for individual regulated facilities, not for state agencies
adopting NSR programs, this language is not appropriate for incorporation-by-reference.

       To address this concern, the Proposed Amendments make certain changes to the
language in Section 2-1-234.2 incorporating the federal requirements by reference. These
changes follow the approaches suggested by EPA to address the concern. The changes
are a non-substantive technical amendment only, and they are intended only to address
EPA’s concern about the specific federal regulatory language that the Air District
incorporated by reference in Section 2-1-234.2. They do not change the substance or
intent of the “Federal Backstop” test as adopted in the 2012 Amendments.

              3.      Making PSD Requirements Applicable to Major Sources of Non-
                      Attainment Pollutants

        One of the major revisions adopted in the 2012 Amendments was to create new
Air District permitting requirements to implement the “Prevention of Significant
Deterioration” (PSD) provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, as discussed above in
Section II.B.3. EPA raised a concern regarding the applicability test for the District’s PSD
provisions as set forth in Section 2-2-224, the definition of “PSD Project.” This provision
defines the applicability of the PSD requirements, because those requirements apply by
their terms only to “PSD Projects.”

        EPA’s concern relates to subsection 224.1, the first element of the “PSD Project”
applicability test in Section 2-2-224. Subsection 224.1 requires that the facility where the
project is located must have emissions over the Clean Air Act’s “major” facility thresholds
(100 tpy or 250 tpy, depending on the type of facility) in order to be a “PSD Project.” But
as currently written, subsection 224.1 applies only to “PSD Pollutants,” which are defined
as pollutants for which the Bay Area is not designated as non-attainment. As a result,
having emissions of non-attainment pollutants over the “major” facility thresholds is not
sufficient to bring the facility within the District’s PSD requirements as subsection 224.1
is currently written. As EPA notes, however, the federal PSD requirements target facilities
that are over the applicable “major” facility thresholds for any regulated NSR pollutant,
including non-attainment pollutants. EPA’s concern is that subsection 224.1 as currently


                                                            SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   15
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


written improperly excludes facilities that are over the “major” facility thresholds for non-
attainment pollutants.

       To address this concern, the Proposed Amendments revise Section 2-2-224.1 to
specify that a project can be a “PSD Project” if it is located at a facility that exceeds the
“major” facility thresholds for any regulated NSR pollutant as defined in EPA’s federal
PSD regulations.6

                4.       Requiring EPA Approval To Use Alternative Computer Models for Air
                         Quality Analysis

        One important element of the PSD requirements is that project applicants must
use computer modeling to assess what air quality impacts may result from their project.
The purpose of this modeling is to ensure that the project will not result in any “significant
deterioration” in air quality. EPA has published a regulation that identifies certain
computer models that are approved for use in conducting this modeling exercise, and the
Air District’s PSD regulations require applicants to use the models specified by this
regulation in most circumstances. If the specified model is inappropriate for some reason,
however, the regulations allow an applicant to use an alternative model as long as the Air
District approves it in writing. (See Section 2-2-305.3.) EPA approved this provision, but
it stated that it wanted the opportunity to review and approve any use of alternative
models. The Proposed Amendments therefore include a revision to Section 2-2-305.3 to
specify that an applicant must obtain written approval from EPA, as well as from the
District, before using an alternative model.

                5.       Facility Categories For Which Fugitive Emissions Must Be Included
                         in PTE Calculations

         Fugitive emissions are included for nearly all purposes in NSR permitting.7 The
only exception involves the threshold for what constitutes a “major” facility under the
federal NSR requirements. In determining whether a facility exceeds the federal “major”
facility thresholds, fugitive emissions are counted only if the facility falls within certain
specific source categories. The Air District’s NSR regulations address this issue in
Section 2-2-217, the definition of “Major Facility”; and in Section 2-2-224.1, which is the
first element of the “PSD Project” definition discussed above, addressing whether the

6
 Note that the project must still have a significant increase and a significant net increase in PSD Pollutant
emissions under Sections 2-2-224.2 and 2-2-224.3 in order to be a “PSD Project,” and these requirements
are not changing. The significant increase test and significant net increase test will still apply for PSD
Pollutants only, and not for non-attainment pollutants.
7
  Fugitive emissions are emissions from unintended openings in process equipment, emissions occurring
from miscellaneous activities relating to the operation of a facility, and those emissions which could not
reasonably pass through a stack, chimney, vent or other functionally equivalent opening. (See Reg. 2-1-
203.)

    16        SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
           STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


facility exceeds the federal “major” facility thresholds. Facilities that are not in any of the
specified source categories are not require to count any fugitive emissions when applying
these provisions.

       The Air District addressed this point in the 2012 Amendments by specifying in
Sections 2-2-217 and 2-2-224.1 that fugitive emissions are counted only if the facility is
within one of the 28 source categories identified in Section 169(1) of the Clean Air Act.
The District also included a specific provision addressing this point, Section 2-2-611, that
explains the situation in detail.

        EPA generally approved of this approach, but it noted that in addition to the 28
source categories listed in Clean Air Act Section 169(1), the federal program also requires
fugitives to be counted for any other stationary source category that was regulated under
section 111 or 112 of the Clean Air Act as of August 7, 1980. To address this concern,
the Proposed Amendments add language to Section 2-2-611 specifying that fugitive
emissions are counted for facilities that are in source categories that were regulated under
section 111 or 112 of the Clean Air Act as of August 7, 1980. The Proposed Amendments
also make corresponding revisions to Sections 2-2-217 and 2-2-224.1 referencing the
provision in Section 2-2-611 where the rule for counting fugitive emissions in specified.

        For ease of implementation of this revision, Air District staff intend to develop a list
of additional source categories that were regulated under section 111 or 112 of the Clean
Air Act as of August 7, 1980. District staff will publish this list on the District’s website so
that affected facilities and members of the public will know what specific categories are
covered.

               6.      Requirement to Evaluate Impacts on Class I Areas

        The federal NSR program requires certain projects to undertake an analysis of
potential impacts on visibility and other air quality related values in “Class I” areas, which
are special areas such as national parks that have been designated for heightened air
quality protection. The 2012 Amendments required projects subject to federal NSR
requirements to undertake a Class I area analysis if they are within 100 km of a Class I
area. EPA noted that the federal NSR requirement is for a Class I area analysis for any
project that “may affect visibility” in a Class I area, and expressed a concern that a bright-
line distance threshold of 100 km could exclude some sources beyond 100 km from a
Class I area that may still affect visibility within the Class I area despite the long distance.
EPA explained that the Federal Land Managers (FLMs) responsible for the Class I areas
have published guidance on how to determine when a Class I area analysis is required,
and that the Air District could address this issue by referencing that guidance. As EPA
stated in its Response to Comments document, “the FLMs use the Federal Land


                                                             SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   17
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


Manager’s Air Quality Related Workgroup guidance (FLAG) in determining when a project
may affect a Class I area. . . . BAAQMD may consider referencing the FLAG guidance
. . . .”

       The Proposed Amendments address this limited disapproval item by referencing
the FLAG guidance as suggested by EPA. Specifically, this revision states in Section 2-
2-401.4 that any project that may affect visibility in any Class I area must include a Class
I area impact analysis in its application materials – with the determination of whether a
project may affect a Class I area to be made according to the FLAG guidance. Sections
2-2-402 and 2-2-404.4 then state that if a project is subject to the Class I area analysis
requirement in Section 2-2-401.4, the APCO must notify EPA and the relevant FLM(s)
about the permit application for the project, and must send those agencies notice of the
APCO’s preliminary decision whether to approve the application.

       In addition, EPA Region IX staff have informally requested another revision, which
was not identified as a deficiency in EPA’s limited disapproval. This revision concerns a
requirement that for PSD projects that may impact Class I areas, the Class I area analysis
must evaluate the potential for impacts to other air quality related values besides visibility.
EPA requested that where the Class I provisions currently reference only visibility, the
language should be expanded to address other air quality related values as well. The
Proposed Amendments include corresponding revisions to address this request as well.

              7.       Time Limits for Providing Offset Refunds

       The Air District’s NSR program includes an important requirement that facilities
need to “offset” any emissions increases from new or modified sources by providing
emission reductions from existing sources so as to ensure no overall increase in
emissions region-wide. Facilities can offset their new emissions by shutting down existing
equipment at the same location, or they can obtain offsets from the District’s emissions
bank. Offsets in the emissions bank are emission reduction credits from other facilities
that the District has evaluated and approved as creditable, and which can be traded
between facilities. If a facility does not have on-site emission reduction credits it can use,
it must provide offsets from the emissions bank in order to receive its NSR permit.

       The Air District has historically had a provision that allows for a facility to obtain a
refund for unused offsets (banked emission reduction credits) it has submitted in two
circumstances. First, if the facility submits more offsets than are required to obtain the
permit, the facility can obtain a refund of any excess over and above what was required.
Second, if the facility never builds or operates the source that was authorized by the
permit, and the permit has expired or been surrendered, the facility can get its credit back.
This provision is currently in Section 2-2-411.


 18          SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
           STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


         EPA approved this refund provision, but it requested that the Air District establish
time limits on how long after permitting the facility can seek a refund. To address this
point, the Proposed Amendments establish a time limit of two years after issuance of an
authority to construct, or 6 months after issuance of a permit to operate, beyond which
the facility would no longer be eligible to obtain a refund. Two years from issuance of an
authority to construct is a reasonable amount of time to allow facilities to request a refund,
and it should not be overly burdensome for facilities that are eligible for a refund to submit
a request during this time frame. Two years also corresponds to the lifespan of an
authority to construct under Section 2-1-407. Thus, in cases where the facility is eligible
for a refund because it did not actually use its authority to construct to go forward and
build a project, the facility will have to have decided within two years of issuance or
renewal of the authority to construct whether it intends to construct the source and use
the offset credit, or abandon the project and ask for its offset credit back. In cases where
the facility decides to go forward and build the project, but it has provided more offsets
than are actually necessary, it can obtain a refund of the excess after it builds the project
and obtains its permit to operate, but a shorter time frame is appropriate. In such cases,
the facility would have to apply to get its excess credit back within 6 months after issuance
of the permit to operate. The Proposed Amendments make these revisions in revised
Section 2-2-411. (Note also that the Proposed Amendments remove the language in
subsection 411.2 referencing issuance of a permit to operate in situations where the
facility is eligible for a refund because it did not use its authority to construct to build the
project. In such cases, no permit to operate is issued, so this language is redundant.)

               8.      Offsets Equivalence Demonstration

        EPA’s deficiency items require the Air District to make several changes to the
“Offsets Equivalence Demonstration” procedures in Section 2-2-412. This provision sets
forth a mechanism under which the Air District demonstrates to EPA and to the public
that the District’s offsets program is at least as stringent as what is required under the
Clean Air Act and EPA’s implementing regulations. Having this demonstration
requirement allows EPA to approve the Air District’s offsets requirements as being
sufficient to satisfy federal requirements, even though the Air District implements its
requirements in a slightly different manner than EPA’s federal program does.

       The Offsets Equivalence Demonstration provision was originally created in 2000
to address EPA Region IX’s interpretation of the requirement that emission reduction
credits must be “surplus.” This means that in order to be creditable, an emission reduction
must be over and above what is legally required anyway. To ensure that this requirement
is met when a source is shut down or curtailed to generate emission reduction credits,




                                                             SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   19
           STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


the source’s baseline emissions rate needs to be adjusted to reflect the most stringent
regulatory requirements currently in effect. This is known as the “surplus” adjustment.8

        The Air District’s credit-generation rules require emission reduction credits to be
surplus-adjusted at the time the credit is generated. But EPA Region IX staff have
historically taken the position that credits need to be adjusted again at the time they are
used, if there are any new or additional regulations that have come into effect between
the time of generation and the time of use. This means that in some cases the Air District
may be obtaining fewer offsets for a particular permit under its approach than EPA Region
IX would require for that permit under its approach.

       Overall, however, the Air District’s offsets requirements are far more stringent than
the federal requirements, because the District requires offsets at a much lower threshold
than the federal regulations do. The federal offsets requirements apply only to facilities
emitting over 100 tons per year, and only when those sources make major modifications,
whereas the Air District’s offsets requirements apply to facilities emitting as little as 10
tons per year, and for any modification that will increase the source’s emissions potential,
not just major modifications. This means that the Air District obtains more offsets in total
from all sources than EPA Region IX would require, even though EPA Region IX’s
approach may obtain more from certain individual permits, because the District obtains
offsets in many situations where EPA’s program does not even apply.

        The Air District created the equivalence demonstration procedure under Section
2-2-412 to address this situation. The provision requires the District to make a
demonstration each year that the total amount of offsets the District has obtained from all
sources (without conducting an additional surplus adjustment at the time of credit use)
exceeds the total amount of offsets that EPA Region IX would have required for major
sources and major modifications (with the additional surplus adjustment at the time of
credit use). This annual demonstration provides a mechanism to confirm that the District’s
program is in fact at least as stringent as what the federal NSR regulations require. The
Air District now needs to make a number of revisions to the current equivalence
demonstration process to address certain concerns raised by EPA Region IX.




8
  The “surplus” adjustment has also sometimes been called the “RACT” adjustment. This term arose
because many of the regulations for which the baseline must be adjusted are regulations that have been
adopted to require “Reasonably Available Control Technology” – or “RACT” – to control emissions. These
regulations are known as RACT regulations, and so adjusting the baseline to reflect these regulations is
sometimes referred to as a RACT adjustment. Surplus adjustment is a more comprehensive term, however,
as the adjustment must include all applicable regulations, not just RACT regulations.

    20        SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


       ● Additional Provisions To Address EPA Region IX’s Position That Sources Must
         Provide Offsets For More Emissions Than They Can Possibly Emit

        The Air District needs to revise the equivalence demonstration procedures to
address a second area that EPA Region IX has recently identified where the Air District’s
offset requirements apply somewhat differently than the federal offset requirements, in
addition to the “surplus-at-time-of-use” issue discussed above. This second difference
involves EPA Region IX’s interpretation of how to calculate the amount of offsets that are
required when a source is modified.

        The Air District has always required sources to provide offsets up to the maximum
amount of emissions that the source could possibly emit under its permit limits and its
physical and operational design – what the regulations call the source’s “potential to emit.”
If a source has already provided offsets for its maximum potential to emit, then the Air
District requires it to provide additional offsets only if a modification will increase its
potential to emit further. The Air District’s regulations require the source to provide
additional offsets for the amount of the increase in potential to emit, to ensure that all of
the source’s emissions will be offset up to the maximum amount that could possibly be
emitted into the atmosphere.

         EPA Region IX, however, interprets the federal offsets provisions to require offsets
for the difference between the source’s actual emissions before the modification and its
maximum potential to emit after the modification. This means that a source being modified
will still have to provide additional offsets if its actual emissions are less than its full
potential to emit (which is nearly always the case).

        The Proposed Amendments will resolve this difference in approach by requiring
the Air District to address it in the equivalence demonstration, along with the difference in
the two agencies’ approach to the “surplus-at-time-of-use” calculation discussed above.
That is, in addition to showing that the Air District is obtaining more offsets than EPA
Region IX would require under its surplus-at-time-of-use interpretation, the demonstration
will also have to show that the Air District is obtaining more offsets than EPA would require
under its interpretation of the amount of offsets required when a source is modified.
Making this demonstration will ensure that the Air District is in fact obtaining more offsets
overall than are required under the federal regulations, taking into account both of these
areas where the Air District’s program takes a different approach than EPA Region IX
does.




                                                            SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   21
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


       ● Revisions To Provide More Detail On How The Equivalence Demonstration Is
         Conducted

        The Proposed Amendments will also expand on the equivalence demonstration
procedures set forth in Section 2-2-412 to provide additional specificity and detail on how
exactly the demonstration is conducted. These changes will increase the certainty and
transparency of the process by making it clear to all stakeholders what the demonstration
will involve and how it will ensure that the Air District’s offsets provisions do in fact meet
or exceed all federal requirements. These revisions will not fundamentally change the
way the Air District currently makes the demonstration (other than to incorporate the
specific changes outlined herein). But they will improve the regulation by providing a step-
by-step outline of how the Air District will demonstrate equivalence so that all interested
parties can clearly understand how the process works.

      The Proposed Amendments specify in a high level of detail that the process for
making the equivalence demonstration is as follows:

        At the end of each year, Air District staff will look back at all of the permits the
District has issued that year for major sources and major modifications (i.e., the permits
subject to the federal offsets requirements). These sources are called “Federal Major
NSR Sources,” as defined in proposed new Section 2-2-228.

       For each of these major permits, Air District staff will examine the amount of offsets
that were required under the Air District’s approach compared to the amount that EPA
Region IX would have required under its calculation methodology. Any shortfall between
what the Air District required and what EPA Region IX would have required is called the
“Federal Offsets Baseline Shortfall,” as defined in proposed new Section 2-2-229.

       Staff will then review the amount of offsets that were provided for the permit, and
will examine whether EPA Region IX would have disallowed some of the offset credit
under its “surplus-at-time-of-use” adjustment as discussed above. Any shortfall between
the amount of credit that the Air District allowed and the amount that EPA Region IX would
have allowed is called the “Federal Surplus-at-Time-of-Use Shortfall, as defined in
proposed new Section 2-2-230.

       Staff will then add the Federal Offsets Baseline Shortfall and the Federal Surplus-
at-Time-of-Use Shortfall for each Federal Major NSR Source permit to obtain the total
shortfall for that permit; and then add up all the shortfalls for all the Federal Major NSR
Source permits issued during the year to obtain the total shortfall for the year. These
calculations are set forth in proposed new sections 2-2-412.1 and 2-2-412.2, respectively.
The total shortfall represents the total amount by which EPA Region IX would have
required more offsets from Federal Major NSR Sources than what the Air District collected
from such sources.
 22         SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


         In order to demonstrate that the Air District’s offset program is equivalent to the
federal program, the District will show that it has obtained sufficient offsets from non-
major sources to make up for this shortfall with respect to Federal Major NSR Sources.
The District will make this showing as provided in Section 2-2-412.3. The District will do
so by identifying “Equivalence Credits,” which are credits associated with non-major
permits as defined in proposed new Section 2-2-231. These credits can include banked
credits from the Air District’s emissions bank that have been provided in connection with
permits issued for non-major sources, as well as un-banked emission reduction credits
that facilities have relied on as “contemporaneous onsite emission reduction credits” in
order to comply with the District’s offsets requirements for non-major sources.9 In addition,
they can also include so-called “orphan” PM2.5 reductions, which are reductions from
facilities that shut down their sources some time ago but did not bank the reductions at
the time (as will likely be the case with most historical PM 2.5 reductions, since the Air
District’s regulations did not even allow for PM2.5 banking until December of 2012).

        To demonstrate equivalence, the Air District will identify sufficient Equivalence
Credits to make up for the full amount of the shortfall for the year identified under Section
2-2-412.2 (if any). Equivalence Credits can only be used once in an equivalence
demonstration: as specified in proposed Section 2-2-412.3.1, if the Air District uses a
credit in one year’s demonstration, that credit cannot be used again in a subsequent
demonstration. In addition, all Equivalence Credits will need to have a “surplus”
adjustment applied to reflect EPA Region IX’s interpretation with respect to the “surplus-
at-time-of-use” issue discussed above. The Air District will make this adjustment under
proposed Section 2-2-412.3.2 according to an EPA-approved methodology. The Air
District will use only the adjusted amount of credit for purposes of making the equivalence
demonstration.

        When the Air District has identified sufficient Equivalence Credits to fully make up
the shortfall identified from all of the Federal Major NSR Source permits issued during the
year, the District will document the demonstration in writing. This will involve a detailed
explanation of how the Air District calculated the shortfall for the year under proposed
Section 2-2-412.1 and 2-2-412.2, as well as an identification of all of the Equivalence
Credits used to make up for the shortfall and demonstrate equivalence under proposed
Section 2-2-412.3. With respect to the Equivalence Credits, the District will document that
the emission reductions reflected in those credits satisfy what EPA calls the “offset
integrity criteria,” which are the requirements that the reductions be real, permanent,


9
 The District’s regulations allow facilities to use unbanked emission reduction credits, but only if they were
generated at the same facility where they were used (i.e., “onsite”), and only if they were generated within
a five-year “contemporaneous” period before they are used.


                                                                 SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   23
             STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


quantifiable, enforceable, and surplus. The documentation that Equivalence Credits
satisfy these integrity criteria will come from the following sources:
      ➢ For Equivalence Credits that are banked credits that were provided in connection
        with prior non-major permits (see Section 2-2-231.1), the Engineering Evaluation
        Report the Air District prepared when the credits were banked will document how
        the emission reductions satisfy the integrity criteria. Banking applicants need to
        show that their emission reductions satisfy these criteria in order to bank the
        reductions, and so the Engineering Evaluation Report prepared for the banking
        application will summarize how the reductions do so.
      ➢ For Equivalence Credits that are “onsite contemporaneous emission reduction
        credits” that were used in connection with prior non-major permits (see Section 2-
        2-231.2), the Engineering Evaluation Report prepared for the permit will document
        how the emission reductions satisfy the integrity criteria. If permit applicants want
        to rely on onsite contemporaneous emission reduction credits, they need to
        demonstrate that the reductions satisfy the integrity criteria as part of their permit
        application. The Engineering Evaluation Report prepared for the permit will
        document how they do so.
      ➢ For Equivalence Credits that are orphan PM2.5 emission reduction credits (see
        Section 2-2-231.3), the Air District will evaluate the reductions to confirm that they
        satisfy all of the offset integrity criteria directly in the equivalence demonstration,
        as there will not be any previously-prepared documentation containing this type of
        analysis. The Air District will review the source that was shut down to generate the
        emission reductions and will confirm that the reductions are real, permanent,
        quantifiable, enforceable, and surplus of current regulatory requirements. The Air
        District will also confirm that the emission reductions have not previously been
        used as Emission Reduction Credits, in order to prevent “double counting” by using
        the same reductions twice for different purposes.
        In this way, the Air District will guarantee in a publicly transparent fashion that the
District has obtained sufficient offsets to make up for any identified shortfall, and that the
emission reductions used in the demonstration satisfy all of EPA’s “integrity criteria.” The
Air District will also make all of the underlying documents (e.g., banking applications,
Engineering Evaluation Reports, etc.) available for public review when it publishes its
equivalence demonstration report. The Air District will not be allowed to use any emission
reductions in the equivalence demonstration unless sufficient documentation exists to
confirm that the reductions satisfy all of the requirements to constitute “Equivalence
Credits” as outlined above.

      Once the Air District has completed the equivalence demonstration, it will submit
the demonstration (with all supporting documentation) to EPA, and will also make it

 24            SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


publicly available and feature it prominently on the Air District’s website so that it may be
easily accessed by interested members of the public. This process will allow EPA and all
other interested parties to review the demonstration and confirm that the Air District’s
offsets requirements are in fact at least as stringent overall as what EPA Region IX would
require under its federal offsets regulations.

        ● Addition Of A Backstop Mechanism That Will Apply In The Event The Air District
          Cannot Make The Equivalence Demonstration

        EPA Region IX also expressed a concern in its 2016 limited disapproval that
Section 2-2-412 does not provide any remedy in the event that the Air District is unable
to make the required demonstration. The Air District has never had any difficulty making
this demonstration because, as noted above, the District’s offsets program as a whole is
much more stringent than what the federal regulations require. Nevertheless, EPA Region
IX has directed the Air District to provide an explicit remedy that would apply in the unlikely
event that the Air District is ever unable to make the demonstration. EPA Region IX
requested that the District specify that in the event that the District does not make the
required demonstration, then permit applicants applying for permits for federal major
sources and major modifications must provide the full amount of offsets that would be
required federally under EPA Region IX’s regulatory approach, until such time as the
District has made up any shortfall.

        The Proposed Amendments will make this change, with revised regulatory
language that will be set forth in a new Section 2-2-415. The revised language states that
if there ever is a shortfall situation, then the APCO will require additional offsets for all
new major sources and major modifications according to EPA Region IX’s approach. If
the APCO fails to make the required demonstration by the applicable deadline, then every
permit for a major stationary source or major modification issued after that date must
provide offsets at that level, until such time as the APCO has obtained sufficient offsets
from non-major sources and modifications such that it can make up for the shortfall and
demonstrate equivalence once again (and if the shortfall continues for multiple years, the
APCO will have to demonstrate that it has made up for all of the shortfalls for all years
before equivalence can be demonstrated).10




10
  This does not mean that the APCO will go back and require additional offsets from existing sources that
have already received NSR permits. Existing permits that have already been issued will not be reopened.
This requirement will apply prospectively only: That is, it will require only that any future permits for new
and modified sources that are issued after any failure to make an equivalence demonstration will have to
provide additional offsets according to EPA’s federal approach.


                                                                 SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   25
           STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


       ● Addition Of PM2.5 As A Pollutant Addressed In The Demonstration

        The Proposed Amendments will also add PM2.5 as a pollutant subject to the
equivalence demonstration requirement, in addition to NOx and POC, which are the
pollutants currently subject to this provision. PM2.5 is also a federal non-attainment
pollutant, and so the Air District needs to demonstrate that its offsets program is at least
as stringent as the federal requirements for this pollutant as well.

       ● Elimination Of The Requirement For The Air District To Provide Offsets To
         Make Up For Any Shortfall

         The Proposed Amendments will also remove the language in the existing
regulation stating that if the Air District cannot make the equivalency demonstration, then
the District will make up any shortfall by providing credits from the Small Facility Banking
Account or by obtaining the credits itself. This language regarding how to address any
shortfall is being replaced by the concept described above under which major facilities
will provide offset credit calculated according to EPA Region IX’s approach. In the event
that there is any shortfall in the amount of credit that major facilities have provided, it
would not make sense to make up that major facility shortfall at the expense of small
facilities, which is what would happen if the Small Facility Banking Account is depleted to
make up the shortfall. Similarly, it would not make sense to require the District to spend
public money to purchase credits on the open market to do so, which is what would
happen if the District had to make up any shortfall itself. Having major facilities adjust their
credits as outlined above is a preferable way to handle this potential concern, compared
to having the burden fall on small facilities or on the Air District’s financial resources.

               9.      Emission Reduction Credit for Shutting Down “Fully Offset” Sources

        The Air District’s rules for determining the amount of emission reduction credit that
is available when a facility shuts down or curtails operation of a source depend on whether
or not the source’s emissions were “fully offset.” For a source that is not fully offset, the
amount of credit available is based on the source’s actual emissions during a 3-year
baseline period before the shutdown. For a source that is fully offset – i.e., the facility
provided emission reduction credits for the full amount of the source’s permitted
emissions at the time of permitting – the amount of credit available is based on the
source’s maximum permitted emissions, even if its actual emissions were less than the
maximum permitted amount during the baseline period. These rules are contained in
Sections 2-2-605.1 (non-fully-offset source) and 2-2-605.2 (fully offset source), as well as
in Section 2-2-213 (definition of “fully offset source”).

       EPA has taken the position that the federal NSR requirements do not allow for the
source’s maximum permitted emissions (also known as “allowable emissions” or
“potential to emit”) to be used as the baseline for determining the amount of emission
 26          SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
             STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


reduction credit available when a source is shut down or curtailed. EPA has taken the
position that the source’s actual emissions must be used to establish the baseline in all
cases, and has requested that the District remove the provision allowing maximum
permitted emissions to be used for “fully offset” sources.

       The Proposed Amendments address this point by removing the provision that
allows “fully offset” sources to use their permitted emissions to establish the baseline for
the emission reduction credit calculation. The Proposed Amendments remove current
Section 2-2-605.2 (the provision for fully offset sources), and instead make the actual-
emissions baseline provision in current Section 2-2-605.1 apply in all cases. The revisions
also reorganize the remaining regulatory language somewhat. In addition, a related
revision removes Section 2-2-213, the definition of “fully offset source,” which will be
redundant when the special baseline provision for fully offset sources is removed.

                 10.      Revisions to Banking Provisions

      As noted above, EPA has proposed a conditional approval of the Air District’s
banking provisions in Regulation 2, Rule 4, subject to two deficiency items that need to
be addressed.11 Air District staff are proposing to address these items as follows.

        First, EPA is concerned that Regulation 2-4 does not contain sufficient provisions
to ensure that emission reductions to be banked satisfy what EPA calls the “offset integrity
criteria,” which are the requirements that the reductions be real, permanent, quantifiable,
enforceable, and surplus. These requirements are already part of the current regulation,
because in order for emission reductions to be bankable they must satisfy the definition
of “Emission Reduction Credit” set forth in the regulations, which specifically states that
the reductions must be real, permanent, quantifiable, enforceable, and surplus. (See
Regulations 2-4-201 and 2-2-211.) If the reductions do not satisfy all of these criteria, they
do not quality as “Emission Reduction Credits” and are not eligible for banking.
Nevertheless, in response to EPA’s concerns, Air District staff are proposing a revision to



11
   EPA also identified the concerns discussed above in Section III.A.9., relating to the provisions for
calculating baseline emissions for determining the amount of credit available for “fully offset” sources, in
connection with the banking rules in Regulation 2, Rule 4. These provisions implicate Regulation 2-4
because they govern the amount of credit that can be banked for such sources. The proposed revisions
discussed in Section III.A.9. above will address this concern with respect to the banking provisions in
Regulation 2-4 as well as with respect to the NSR provisions in Regulation 2-2. In addition, the Proposed
Amendments will also remove the related provision in Section 2-4-301.7 that referenced the procedure for
granting credit for reductions in permit limits that have been fully offset. Since the Air District will be basing
the amount of bankable credit on a source’s actual emissions baseline in all cases (including for “fully offset”
sources), the language in Section 2-4-301.7 basing the amount of credit on permitted emissions needs to
be removed.


                                                                    SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   27
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


Section 2-4-301 to state explicitly that an applicant may bank emission reductions only if
the APCO determines that they satisfy all of these “integrity” criteria.

       Second, EPA is concerned that the banking provisions do not ensure that banked
credits will reflect permanent emission reductions, because subsection 2-4-302.3 allows
a Banking Certificate to include conditions that would provide an opportunity for the
emissions to resume. Air District staff are proposing to address this concern by deleting
subsection 302.3, which is redundant in any event. The requirement that reductions must
be permanent will be enforceable through Section 2-2-605, which does not have any
provision allowing the emissions involved to resume, as well as through the revised
language in Section 2-4-301 discussed in the preceding paragraph.

       B.       Revisions to Address Issues Identified by Air District Staff Based on
                Recent Experience in Implementing the 2012 Amendments

       As noted previously, the Air District’s experiences in implementing the NSR
program since the 2012 Amendments were adopted have highlighted a need for certain
revisions and clarifications to make the program function better. These are outlined below.

                1.      Section 2-1-218 – Definition of “Regulated Air Pollutant”

       Since adoption of the 2012 Amendments, Air District staff have realized that there
is some potential for confusion regarding the addition of greenhouse gases as a pollutant
that is regulated under the District’s NSR program. Subjecting greenhouse gases to
regulation raises concerns regarding two provisions in Regulation 2, Rule 1, that need to
be addressed.

        The first concern involves the exemption for agricultural sources in Section 2-1-
113.1.2. This provision exempts qualifying agricultural sources from having to obtain an
Air District permit, as long as their emissions are less than 50 tons per year of all regulated
air pollutants except fugitive dust. Given the nature of GHGs, if this 50 tpy threshold
applied to GHGs, it would eliminate the exemption for virtually all qualifying agricultural
sources. This was never the intent behind the 2012 Amendments, but as written the
Amendments can be interpreted to have this effect. To address this situation, the
Proposed Amendments make clear that the exemption applies as long as a source’s
emissions are less than 50 tons per year of all regulated air pollutants except fugitive dust
and greenhouse gases.

       The second concern involves Section 2-1-413, which governs permits for sources
that will be used at multiple locations throughout the Air District’s jurisdiction. The
provision allows applicants to obtain a single permit allowing use at any location within
the District for qualifying sources, as long as the source does not emit more than 10 tpy
of any regulated air pollutant. Again, given the nature of GHGs, applying this 10 tpy limit
 28           SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


to GHG emissions would exclude virtually all qualifying sources from being able to avail
themselves of this provision. This was not the intent of the 2012 Amendments, and so the
Proposed Amendments revise Section 2-1-413.1 to make clear that the 10 tpy limit
applies only to regulated pollutants other than GHGs.

              2.      Section 2-1-413 – Time Limits On Operation of Sources Under
                      Multiple-Location Permits

        In the 2012 Amendments, the Air District addressed some confusion that had
arisen regarding two different scenarios for permitting sources that are not permanently
installed at a facility. The two scenarios involved are (i) portable equipment registered
with the California Air Resources Board under that agency’s Portable Equipment
Registration Program (PERP); and (ii) equipment that is not eligible for CARB’s PERP
program, but is permitted by the Air District for use at multiple different locations around
the Bay Area. The pre-2012 regulations blurred the different regulatory requirements for
these scenarios somewhat. To address this situation, the 2012 Amendments adopted a
more definite distinction between (i) PERP-registered equipment, which is subject to
ARB’s PERP requirements and is therefore exempt from having to get a permit from the
Air District under Section 2-1-105; and (ii) non-PERP-registered equipment that is used
at multiple locations, which is not eligible for the PERP exemption (because it is not
PERP-registered), but which can get a special multi-location permit from the Air District
under Section 2-1-413.

         One element of the PERP program is that sources cannot be located at a facility
for more than 12 months in order to be considered “portable” under the program’s
eligibility guidelines. Under the Air District’s pre-2012 NSR regulations, this requirement
also applied to District multi-location permits. When the District clarified the distinction
between the two scenarios, however, the 12-month residency limit was not carried over
into the multi-location permit provisions in Section 2-1-413. This lack of a time limit has
led to some concerns about the potential for circumvention using this provision. That is,
concerns have arisen that a facility could apply for a multi-location permit under Section
2-1-413 for a source that it does not ever intend to operate at multiple locations. In such
a situation, the facility (or a contractor working on the facility’s behalf) could use Section
2-1-413 to permit a source that it intends to operate exclusively at that facility. A source
like this should obviously be included in the facility’s permit, and not under a separate
multi-location permit, but in this scenario the facility (or its contractor) would be able to
obtain a separate permit instead of having it included in the facility’s permit.

       In order to avoid the potential for such an outcome, the Proposed Amendments
apply a 12-month time limit that would preclude the use of 2-1-413 for any source that will
reside at the same facility for more than 12 months. In the event that a source with a multi-


                                                            SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   29
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


location permit were operated at a single facility for more than 12 months, it will lose its
eligibility for the multi-source permit and will have to be permitted from scratch as a new
source. This limitation will be added in a new subsection 2-1-413.7.

                3.      Sources Operated By Agents/Contractors On Behalf of Facility
                        Owners

        Confusion has arisen regarding situations where a third-party contractor may
operate an emissions source at a facility on behalf of the owner/operator of the facility.
For example, a facility may have a need to hire a contractor to bring in a piece of
equipment for a period of time to perform some work in connection with the operation of
a process unit at the facility. If the equipment will be used at the facility for more than 12
months, the Air District’s intention is to treat that equipment as part of the facility, even if
it is owned and operated at the facility by the independent third-party contractor. Such a
situation falls under the existing definition of “facility” in Section 2-1-213 through the
language in that definition stating that a facility includes all sources “under common
ownership or control.” If the facility owner hires the contractor to bring the equipment
onsite to assist with the operation of the facility, then the equipment is under the ultimate
control of the facility owner. This means (among other things) that any emissions from the
equipment are subject to offsets to the extent required under Sections 2-2-302 and 2-2-
303, if the facility is over the offsets applicability thresholds set forth in those regulations.
In such a case, it will be the facility’s ultimate responsibility to provide the offsets for the
contractor’s equipment, although the facility can negotiate with the contractor to have the
contractor procure the offsets as part of the contract to provide the equipment.

        The Proposed Amendments add language to Section 2-1-213 to clarify how the
definition applies in this situation. They also include language to prevent circumvention of
the 12-month time limit by using multiple, successive temporary sources to perform the
same function at the refinery.

       C.       Revisions to Address the Supreme Court’s UARG v. EPA Decision

         As noted above, in 2014 the Supreme Court ruled in the UARG v. EPA case that
facilities cannot become subject to the Clean Air Act’s NSR and Title V requirements
based on their greenhouse gas emissions alone. The Court reached this conclusion
based on its interpretation of the terms “major emitting facility” in the Act’s NSR provisions
and “major source” in its Title V provisions. The Court found that the Act’s conception of
a “major” source does not encompass sources of GHG emissions, such that GHG
emissions alone cannot make a facility “major”. Only if a facility exceeds the “major”
source thresholds for some other regulated pollutant besides GHGs will it become subject
to NSR and Title V permitting.


 30           SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


        This ruling impacts how EPA’s federal NSR and Title V regulations are interpreted.
In particular, it impacts EPA’s definitions of the terms “regulated air pollutant” and “subject
to regulation,” which defined those terms to make GHGs a pollutant that could bring a
facility within the NSR and Title V programs regardless of any other pollutants. The
Supreme Court’s ruling resulted in the portions of those definitions that regulated facilities
based solely on their GHG emissions being vacated.

       With respect to the Air District’s NSR program in Regulation 2-2, the District does
not need to make any major revisions because the NSR program addresses GHGs
primarily by incorporating the federal definitions by reference. As a result, the Supreme
Court’s ruling rendering the relevant portions of those definitions ineffective did the same
thing with respect to the Air District’s program, leaving nothing in the District’s regulatory
language that need to be fixed. The one exception is in Section 2-2-214, the definition of
Greenhouse Gases, which includes a provision addressing how GHGs are to be
measured for purposes of determining whether GHGs alone can make a facility subject
to NSR regulation. As the Supreme Court has now made clear that GHGs cannot in fact
make a facility subject to regulation, this element of Section 2-2-214 is no longer
necessary and should be removed.

       With respect to the Title V program in Regulation 2, Rule 6, there are more
regulatory provisions that need to be addressed. The Air District added a number of GHG-
related provisions to its Title V program in the 2012 Amendments based on EPA’s original
interpretation that GHGs had to be included in that program. These revisions added
greenhouse gases to the definition of “regulated air pollutants” subject to Title V permitting
in Section 2-6-222, and they also made a number of other related revisions to implement
this new requirement. In light of the Supreme Court’s UARG decision, it is now clear that
these revisions are in conflict with the Clean Air Act’s Title V requirements.

       As a result, the Proposed Amendments remove the 2012 revisions that added
greenhouse gases to the Title V program. That is, the Proposed Amendments remove
Section 2-6-222.6, the provision that added greenhouse gases to the definition of
“regulated air pollutant,” as well as all of the other revisions related to greenhouse gases,




                                                            SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS   31
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


so that the regulations will revert back to how they were before the 2012 revisions. These
changes will make the Air District’s Title V program consistent with how the Supreme
Court has interpreted the Title V requirements in the UARG case.12




12
   Note that UARG, and the corresponding elements of the Proposed Amendments, only address the issue
of whether a facility can become subject to Title V permitting requirements based on its greenhouse gases.
As explained above, the Supreme Court held that a facility cannot become subject to Title V based on
greenhouse gases alone, but instead must have emissions of some other regulated air pollutant above the
Title V trigger levels in order to become subject to the Title V requirements. Once a facility becomes subject
to Title V permitting because of some other regulated air pollutant, however, greenhouse-gas-related permit
requirements are still included in the Title V permit. Title V permits must include all “applicable
requirements,” even where those applicable requirements address greenhouse gases. This principle of
Title V permitting was not affected by the UARG decision.

 32            SECTION III | PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


IV.    ADDITIONAL REVISIONS CONSIDERED DURING RULE DEVELOPMENT
       PROCESS

        In addition to the revisions that will be made by the Proposed Amendments, which
are largely technical and administrative in nature, Air District staff also initially developed
two other more substantive changes to the NSR program at the public workshop stage.
Staff included these proposed changes in the workshop drafts circulated for public review
and comment in May of 2017, and discussed them with interested members of the public
at three public workshops held in June of 2017. Air District staff are not proposing action
on these two provisions at this time, for the following reasons.

       A.       Air District Pre-Approval for Petroleum Refinery Crude Slate Changes
                (Clean Air Plan Control Measure SS9)

       The first significant substantive change that Staff workshopped was a provision
that would require petroleum refineries to obtain approval from the Air District before
making any significant changes in their crude slates. Staff developed this proposed
change to implement Control Measure SS9 in the 2017 Clean Air Plan, Spare the Air,
Cool the Climate.

       As explained in detail in the May 2017 Workshop Report, Staff proposed this
provision in order to help the District enforce its New Source Review permit requirements
when refineries change their crude slates. If a refinery changes its operations in order to
accommodate different crude slates in a way that will increase emissions, such a change
is a “modification” that requires an NSR permit. But if the refinery goes ahead and makes
such a modification without applying for or obtaining an NSR permit, the Air District may
not ever know about the modification because the change may be subtle and not
immediately obvious to District inspectors. The proposed regulatory revision would
require refineries to apply for approval for any “significant crude slate change” as defined
in the regulation – which would give the Air District information about the change and
allow the District to determine whether the change involves a “modification” subject to
NSR permitting requirements. Reviewing and approving such changes in advance would
give the District an opportunity to ensure that refineries are complying with all applicable
NSR requirements when they make significant changes in their crude slates.

       After further analysis of the issues involved, and after considering the comments
received through the public workshop process, Air District Staff have concluded that the
most appropriate path forward at this point is to defer action on the proposed crude slate
provision in order to collect and assess more data enabling a better method for
implementing the proposal. There are a number of important issues that need to be


                               SECTION IV | ADDITIONAL REVISIONS CONSIDERED DURING RULE DEVELOPMENT   33
           STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


worked out, including issues such as how a “significant” crude slate change would be
defined, the process and timing for obtaining District review and approval for such a
change, and other important implementation issues.

        In particular, deferring final action at this stage will allow staff and stakeholders to
review and evaluate additional information about the refineries’ crude slates and how
crude slate changes may relate to air emissions. The Petroleum Refining Emissions
Tracking Rule (Regulation 12, Rule 15) requires refineries to submit crude slate
information to the District, but that requirement has only recently taken effect and the
District has been receiving the information only for a short period of time. Taking the time
for further evaluation will allow more data to be collected.

         Moreover, initial indications from reviewing this crude slate data show that in some
cases, the attributes of the crude slates that the refineries have processed historically are
not “normally distributed,” meaning that the observed data points are probably insufficient
to get an accurate understanding of the normal variability of the data, which makes it very
difficult to determine what is a significant change from typical operations. If the attributes
of the crude that a refinery processes are highly variable from month to month, it can be
difficult to determine how much of a change signals a “significant” change in crude slate.
Additional analysis will help Air District staff and stakeholders better understand how to
make such a determination. Furthermore, it appears that in some cases historical data
about crude slate attributes may not be immediately available and may require additional
development. Some information on crude constituents may be able to be re-created from
surrogate sources, but doing so will introduce inaccuracies that make it difficult to
determine what is normal variation and what is a significant change. Given these
circumstances, it would be prudent to assess the available data about the refineries’ crude
slates more comprehensively, to collect additional data, and to investigate further how
changes in crude slates relate to changes in air emissions.

       For all of these reasons, Air District staff are not finalizing the proposed crude slate
provisions at this time. Staff are moving forward with the technical and administrative
revisions discussed above in Section III, which are ready to be finalized and which are
under an EPA-imposed deadline for final action. These revisions need to be finalized and
approved by EPA before March 1, 2018, or the Bay Area could face sanctions under the
Clean Air Act. Staff will continue to work on developing the proposed crude slate
provisions, and will develop a final proposal for consideration by the Board of Directors
when all of the implementation details have been fully worked out.

      In the meantime, Air District staff will continue to use existing enforcement tools to
focus on refinery crude slate changes to help detect and prevent any non-compliance

 34          SECTION IV | ADDITIONAL REVISIONS CONSIDERED DURING RULE DEVELOPMENT
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


with NSR requirements. Specifically, District staff will continue to review monthly crude
slate reports providing information on the attributes of the crude that each refinery
processes each month under Regulation 12-15-408. If District staff find significant
changes in the crude attributes suggesting that the refinery has changed its crude slate
in a significant way, and if there are indications that the refinery may have undertaken a
modification in order to accommodate the change, District inspectors and engineering
staff will conduct an investigation to determine whether any violations of any NSR
permitting requirements have occurred. This enforcement approach will provide an
effective interim measure to address the potential for NSR non-compliance while the
District evaluates how best to implement the proposed crude slate provisions under Clean
Air Plan Control Measure SS-9.

       B.       Expanded “Best Available Control Technology” Requirement for
                Greenhouse Gases (Clean Air Plan Control Measure SS17)

        The second significant substantive change that was included in the workshop
drafts circulated in May was a proposal to expand the scope of the “Best Available Control
Technology” requirement for greenhouse gases in the Air District’s New Source Review
Program. Air District staff included a proposal to require NSR permit applicants to
implement Best Available Control Technology (BACT) to reduce their greenhouse gas
emissions for any new or modified source with an emissions increase of 25,000 tpy CO2e
or more. This would represent a substantial expansion in the scope of the requirement,
which currently applies only for projects with increases of 75,000 tpy CO2e or more, and
only at “major” facilities (i.e., those with criteria pollutant emissions of over 100 tpy or 250
tpy, depending on the type of facility). Staff developed this proposed change to implement
Control Measure SS17 in the 2017 Clean Air Plan.

        After the public workshops, however, the California Legislature adopted AB 398,
which added a new provision to the Health and Safety Code prohibiting the District from
adopting any regulation to control CO2 emissions from any sources subject to California’s
cap-and-trade regulations. The legislation amends Health & Safety Code section 38594
to state that “[a] district shall not adopt or implement an emission reduction rule for carbon
dioxide from stationary sources that are also subject to [cap-and-trade].” This language
effectively prohibits the District from moving forward and adopting the reduced BACT
threshold for greenhouse gases that was proposed at the public workshop stage, since
nearly all stationary sources with emissions over 25,000 tpy that could be subject to NSR
permitting are subject to the cap-and-trade regulations, and because the bulk of their
greenhouse gas emissions are CO2. Air District staff have therefore removed the lowered
greenhouse gas BACT threshold provision from the final version of the Proposed
Amendments.



                               SECTION IV | ADDITIONAL REVISIONS CONSIDERED DURING RULE DEVELOPMENT   35
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


       It is important to note, however, that the District’s authority to maintain the existing
75,000 tpy threshold is not affected. Applying BACT at the 75,000 tpy threshold is required
under the federal Clean Air Act as set forth in EPA’s implementing regulations in 40 C.F.R.
section 51.166. The provision in AB 398 stripping the District of its authority to implement
CO2 regulations specifically excludes regulations “required to comply with the federal
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 7401 et seq.) or regulations implementing that act.” The
current requirement to apply BACT for greenhouse gas emissions sources at the 75,000
tpy threshold will remain unaffected by the Proposed Amendments.

        It is also important to note that AB 398’s prohibition on regulating CO2 emissions
still leaves the Air District with regulatory authority over non-CO2 greenhouse gas
pollutants, such as methane and black carbon. These pollutants were not included as part
of the proposal developed under Control Measure SS17, which covered only the six
greenhouse gases that are currently regulated under the existing 75,000 tpy BACT
requirement (of which CO2 is the main constituent). But there is no reason why the Air
District could not consider developing a BACT requirement – or some other type of
regulatory approach – to address these other important contributors to climate change
under Regulation 2. Air District staff will continue to evaluate whether any such alternative
approaches may be appropriate for further development.




 36          SECTION IV | ADDITIONAL REVISIONS CONSIDERED DURING RULE DEVELOPMENT
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


V.       EMISSION REDUCTION AND COMPLIANCE COST IMPACTS

        Because the Proposed Amendments are primarily technical and administrative in
nature, they are not expected to have any significant direct impact on emissions in the
Bay Area – although by allowing the Air District’s permitting programs to function more
effectively, they will be indirectly helping to achieve all of the important air quality benefits
associated with those programs. By the same token, the Proposed Amendments are not
expected to result in any significant compliance costs for regulated entities.

      A few of the Proposed Amendments will result in minor expansion of the scope of
the NSR program at the margins, but the changes will be minimal and will not make any
substantial changes to how the program functions currently. For example:
     •   The revision to Section 2-2-224.1 to make the PSD provisions of Regulation 2-2
         applicable to major sources of non-attainment pollutants as well as major sources
         of attainment pollutants (discussed above in Section III.A.3.) could slightly expand
         the universe of facilities subject to these requirements. This could occur if there
         are facilities that are currently below the “major” source threshold for all attainment
         pollutants, but are above the threshold for a non-attainment pollutant. If such a
         facility implements a project with a significant net increase in attainment pollutants,
         it would be required to implement the various PSD requirements for those
         attainment pollutants with significant net increases.
     •   The revision to Section 2-2-611 requiring a few additional categories of facilities to
         include their fugitive emissions when determining if they exceed the “major” source
         thresholds (discussed above in Section III.A.5.) could make more facilities “major”
         facilities. This could occur if there are facilities in those categories that are currently
         below the “major” facility threshold, but are close enough to it that their fugitive
         emissions will push them over the threshold.
     •   The revision to Section 2-2-605 to remove the provision allowing “fully offset”
         sources to use their permitted emissions as the baseline for calculating bankable
         emission reduction credits when such sources are shut down, which will require
         them to use their actual emissions as the baseline instead (discussed above in
         Section III.A.9.), could reduce the total amount of emission reduction credits
         available regionwide to offset future NSR emissions increases. This could result in
         the stock of banked credits declining more quickly, which could cause a marginal
         increase in the cost of credits and could lead to the emissions bank being
         exhausted at an earlier date.
     •   The revision to Section 2-2-401.4 that would use the approach suggested by the
         Federal Land Managers’ working group to determine whether a PSD Project
         applicant is required to evaluate air-quality-related impacts in Class I Areas

                                               SECTION V | EMISSION REDUCTIONS & COMPLIANCE COSTS   37
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


        (discussed above in Section III.A.6.) could potentially expand the universe of
        project applicants that must conduct these analyses. This could occur if any
        “major” facilities propose projects with emissions increases exceeding 1,000 tons
        per year located more than 100 km from a Class I Area. If a facility proposes such
        a project, the facility may be required to conduct an evaluation of potential impacts
        in the Class I Area, even though the facility is beyond the 100 km limit under the
        current rule.
These changes constitute an incremental expansion of the scope of the Air District’s NSR
program at the margins, and they could therefore potentially require a facility to implement
some additional requirement to limit emissions in a way that would not be required absent
the Proposed Amendments. The potential for such a situation to arise in practice would
depend on whether there are any facilities in the Bay Area in any category described
above that could be affected by these changes, and whether (and to what extent) such
facilities may decide to pursue projects involving the installation of new sources, or the
modification of existing sources, that would implicate any of the changes. Moreover, to
the extent that there are any such facilities with new or modified sources that may be
affected, the extent of any substantive changes in what those facilities will be required to
do will most likely be limited. For all of these reasons, the potential for any changes in
how facilities will actually implement their operations under the Proposed Amendments is
expected to be minor.13

        Beyond these provisions making minor changes to the scope of the Air District’s
NSR program, the remainder of the Proposed Amendments do not affect the program’s
substantive requirements in any way. Many of the requirements apply only to the
procedures for how the permitting programs will be administered, such as the requirement
for EPA to approve the use of alternative computer models (discussed above in Section
III.A.4.), the time limits on applicants’ requests for offset refunds (discussed above in
Section III.A.7.), and the procedures under which the Air District will make its offsets
“equivalence demonstration” (discussed above in Section III.A.8.). Others involve only
revisions to the specific terminology used in the regulations without any substantive
changes, such as the language changes in the agricultural source provisions (discussed
above in Section III.A.1.) and the terms from EPA’s regulations incorporated by reference
into Section 2-1-234.2 (discussed above in Section III.A.2.). And some, such as the
revisions to the emissions banking regulations (discussed above in Section III.A.10.),
simply make explicit what is already implied in the current provisions, again with no


13
  Furthermore, EPA will require such changes whether the Air District makes them or not. That is, if the Air
District does not make these changes, EPA is authorized to step in and impose NSR regulations federally,
which will subject permit applicants to all of these requirements anyway. As such, in many ways it is not the
Proposed Amendments that are making these regulatory changes, but EPA’s federal requirements under
the Clean Air Act that require permit applicants to do all these things.

 38           SECTION V | EMISSION REDUCTIONS & COMPLIANCE COSTS
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


substantive changes. These changes will not require permitted facilities to do anything
differently than under the current regulatory system, and so they will not affect emissions
or create any additional compliance costs. They will simply make the revisions necessary
to allow EPA to fully approve the District’s regulatory programs and to achieve the other
related goals of the Proposed Amendments.

       Given the narrow scope of the Proposed Amendments and the fact that they are
limited to minor technical and administrative changes in the regulations, the Proposed
Amendments are not expected to result in any significant direct emission reductions, and
are similarly not expected to result in any significant compliance costs. Environmental
impacts and cost concerns are also addressed further in the CEQA Initial Study and in
the socioeconomic analysis for the Proposed Amendments, which are being published in
conjunction with this Staff Report.




                                             SECTION V | EMISSION REDUCTIONS & COMPLIANCE COSTS   39
               STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


VI.       REGULATORY ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS

       When the Air District adopts or amends its regulations, it is subject to certain
statutory requirements to assess potential environmental, regulatory, socioeconomic and
other impacts. Air District staff have evaluated all of these potential impacts in order to
ensure that all applicable statutory requirements have been fulfilled. This section
summarizes those requirements and how they have been satisfied for the Proposed
Amendments.

          A.       California Health & Safety Code Requirements

        Before adopting or amending any regulations, the Board of Directors must make
certain findings required by Health & Safety Code Section 40727. These include
findings of necessity, authority, clarity, consistency, non-duplication, and reference. Air
District Staff have conducted an analysis of the Proposed Amendments and have
concluded that there is substantial evidence on which the Board of Directors can make
these required findings. The basis for this conclusion is as follows.
      •   Necessity: This finding requires a demonstration that a need exists for the
          proposed amendments, as demonstrated by the record. As discussed above in
          Section III, the Proposed Amendments are necessary to address recent
          developments affecting the Air District’s NSR and Title V permit programs.
          Specifically, the Proposed Amendments are necessary for three reasons. First, the
          Proposed Amendments are necessary to address the deficiencies identified by
          EPA in its “limited disapproval” of the District’s NSR regulations. Making these
          changes is necessary so that EPA can fully approve the Air District’s NSR program
          under the Clean Air Act (and so that the Bay Area can avoid sanctions for failure
          to have an EPA-approved program). Second, the Proposed Amendments are
          necessary to refine the Air District’s NSR program to ensure that it functions as
          efficiently and effectively as possible. Third, the Proposed Amendments are
          necessary to align the Air District’s regulations with recent legal developments
          affecting the NSR and Title V provisions of the Clean Air Act.
      •   Authority: This finding requires identification of the state or federal law that
          permits or requires the Air District to adopt the Proposed Amendments. The federal
          law that requires the Air District to adopt NSR permitting regulations is Part C and
          Part D of Title I of the Clean Air Act. The federal law that requires the Air District
          to adopt Title V permitting regulations is Title V of the Clean Air Act. The California
          law that requires the Air District to adopt permitting requirements to provide for
          attainment of ambient air quality standards is Division 26, Part 3, Chapter 10 of the
          California Health & Safety Code (commending with Section 40910). Additional
          California law authorizing the Air District to adopt NSR and Title V permitting

 40              SECTION VI | REGULATORY ANALYSES
       STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


    regulations is contained in Sections 40001 and 40702 of the California Health &
    Safety Code, which are general provisions authorizing California air districts to
    adopt and implement appropriate regulations as necessary to achieve and
    maintain air quality standards and to execute the powers and duties granted to and
    imposed on them.
•   Clarity: This finding requires that the Proposed Amendments are written so that
    Regulation 2’s meaning can be easily understood by persons affected by it. As
    explained in this Staff Report, Air District Staff have conducted a thorough review
    of the regulatory language contained in the Proposed Amendments to ensure that
    it presents the requirements of the NSR and Title V permitting programs in the
    clearest possible manner. District Staff have also conducted a public outreach
    process and engaged with members of the public who will be affected by the
    regulations to solicit their input on how the regulations should be written and
    presented. The final version of the Proposed Amendments reflects this public
    input.
•   Consistency: This finding requires that the Proposed Amendments must be in
    harmony with, and not in conflict with or contradictory to, existing statutes,
    regulations, and decisional law. As explained in this Staff Report, Air District Staff
    have reviewed all relevant provisions of state and federal law, and court decisions
    to the extent applicable, to ensure that the Proposed Amendments are consistent
    with them. Indeed, one of the primary reasons for adopting the Proposed
    Amendments is to make sure that the Air District’s programs are in fact consistent
    with applicable legal requirements. For example, the Proposed Amendments will
    (among other things) ensure that the Air District’s NSR program addresses all
    areas identified by EPA where the current regulations are not fully consistent with
    federal Clean Air Act requirements, and will also ensure that the District’s
    regulations are consistent with recent legal developments such as the Supreme
    Court’s decision in the UARG v. EPA case.
•   Non-Duplication: This finding requires that the Proposed Amendments must not
    impose the same requirements as an existing state or federal regulation, unless
    doing so is necessary and proper to execute powers and duties granted to or
    imposed upon the Air District. To the extent that the Air District’s NSR and Title V
    programs require stationary sources to obtain pre-construction and operating
    permits in the same manner as EPA’s federal programs, the District’s permitting
    programs are necessary and proper to execute the District’s power and duty to
    implement these requirements in the Bay Area. As discussed above in Section
    II.A. on the legal framework for NSR and Title V permitting, although Federal law
    creates these programs and sets forth the minimum requirements for how they are
    implemented (with additional requirements imposed by State law), the programs

                                                           SECTION VI | REGULATORY ANALYSES   41
             STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


          are intended to be implemented primarily by local agencies through their own
          regulations. The Proposed Amendments will allow the Air District’s permitting
          programs to do so effectively and in accordance with law.
      •   Reference: This finding requires identification of and reference to the provisions
          of law that will be implemented by the Proposed Amendments. These provisions
          are those identified and referred to in connection with the “authority” finding above.
Based on the foregoing, there is ample evidence on which the Board of Directors can
make the findings required by Health & Safety Code Section 40727.

        In complying with these requirements of Health & Safety Code Section 40727, the
Air District is required under Health & Safety Code Section 40727.2 to prepare an
analysis identifying all existing federal air pollution control requirements and Air District
rules and regulations that apply to the types of sources and equipment that are subject to
the Proposed Amendments. As the NSR and Title V permitting programs apply to
essentially all sources of air pollution in the Bay Area, the universe of existing federal and
District pollution control requirements and rules and regulations that apply to the facilities
that may be affected by the Proposed Amendments includes all federal requirements for
stationary sources and all Air District requirements. These requirements are numerous,
and they are listed in Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Subchapter
C (Air Programs); and in Air District Regulations 1 through 12.

       In addition, under Health & Safety Code Section 40728.5, before adopting or
amending any regulations that will significantly affect air quality or emissions limitations,
the Air District must assess any potential socioeconomic impacts from the adoption or
amendment, to the extent that data are available. Section 40728.5 defines socioeconomic
impacts to include the following elements:
      •   Businesses Affected: NSR and Title V permitting address a wide variety of
          stationary sources in the Bay Area. The Air District currently has approximately
          8,000 permitted facilities, and the Proposed Amendments could potentially affect
          any or all of them. Most aspects of the NSR and Title V permitting programs will
          not be affected by the Proposed Amendments, of course, and so many of these
          facilities will not see any change in the specific provisions that apply to them.
          Moreover, most of the substantive requirements of these permitting programs
          apply only to new and modified sources, and so how any particular business may
          be affected will depend upon that business’s plans for adding new sources or
          modifying its existing sources in the future. As such, it not possible to determine
          specifically how the Proposed Amendments will affect any particular operation or
          any particular type of business or segment of industry. There is no data or other
          information available on which one could make such a determination at that level


 42            SECTION VI | REGULATORY ANALYSES
       STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


    of specificity. As a general matter, however, for any business or industry segments
    that may be affected, the effects are not expected to be significant.
•   Impact on Employment and the Economy: For the same reasons that it is not
    possible to state with specificity exactly what businesses will be affected by the
    Proposed Amendments or exactly how any particular business or industry segment
    will be affected, it is not possible to quantify the extent of any potential impacts on
    employment and the economy. To the extent that there are any such impacts,
    however, they are not likely to be extensive. As outlined in Section V. above, the
    Proposed Amendments are not expected to impose significant additional
    compliance costs, and they are not expected to require affected facilities to have
    to hire any additional staff or to impose substantial costs that will have any adverse
    impact on the region’s economy.
•   Range of Probable Costs of Regulation: It is similarly not possible to quantify with
    any specificity the range of probable costs associated with the Proposed
    Amendments, if any. Any additional regulatory costs are expected to be minimal,
    and are not expected to impose any significant cost burdens on regulated entities.
    Beyond this general level of cost impact projection, is not possible to estimate
    exactly where within the range of zero to less-than-significant the costs may fall.
•   Availability of Cost-Effective Alternatives: There are no alternatives that will satisfy
    the goals and objectives of the Proposed Amendments with less cost. The bulk of
    the revisions being made by the Proposed Amendments are legally required in
    order for EPA to be able to fully approve the Air District’s permitting programs, and
    the District has no viable alternative but to make them. Furthermore, the Proposed
    Amendments are not expected to impose any significant compliance costs as
    explained in Section V. As such, even if there were available alternatives, they
    would not involve any significant reduction in compliance costs.
•   Emission Reductions: As discussed in Section V., it is not possible to specify with
    any certainty the extent of any emission reductions that will be gained specifically
    because the Proposed Amendments. The Proposed Amendments present
    technical and administrative revisions to the current rules, and these revisions will
    not substantially change the scope or substantive requirements of the Air District’s
    permitting programs. As such, the Proposed Amendments are not expected to
    directly create any significant emission reductions. They are intended to address
    the regulatory mechanisms through which the programs are implemented, which
    is an important consideration from the perspective of administering the programs
    effectively, but they will not have any significant direct effect on the amount of air
    emissions from regulated facilities in the Bay Area.



                                                           SECTION VI | REGULATORY ANALYSES   43
               STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


      •   Necessity: As noted above in connection with Section 40727, the Proposed
          Amendments are necessary to implement changes to the current rules required by
          EPA for full approval of the NSR program under the federal Clean Air Act, to
          address certain issues identified by Air District staff to ensure that the permit
          regulations function as effectively as possible, and to align the regulations with
          recent legal developments. These reasons why the Proposed Amendments are
          necessary are discussed in detail in Section III.

        Section 40728.5 requires the Board of Directors to consider the socioeconomic
impact of the Proposed Amendments, and to make a good faith effort to minimize any
adverse socioeconomic impacts associated with them. In light of the discussion above,
District Staff have concluded that the Proposed Amendments will not have any significant
adverse socioeconomic impacts. This conclusion is also based (in part) on the
socioeconomic impact analysis prepared by Applied Development Economics, which is
incorporated herein. Staff submit that adoption of the Proposed Amendments constitutes
the most effective way to further the Air District’s goals of implementing the state and
federal NSR and Title V permitting requirements with the minimum amount of
socioeconomic impact possible.

          B.       California Environmental Quality Act Requirements

        The Proposed Amendments have been prepared to ensure that the Air District can
effectively implement two important Clean Air Act permitting programs, which will help
ensure that District regulations are complied with, that air pollution is reduced, and that
the region’s clean air goals are achieved. As such, the Proposed Amendments will help
support positive environmental benefits. The Air District is still required to evaluate the
potential for the Proposed Amendments to have ancillary negative environmental
impacts, however, notwithstanding these positive air quality benefits. This requirement is
imposed by the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”), Pub. Res. Code § 21800
et seq., as well as the CEQA Guidelines that have been adopted to help implement the
statutory provisions of CEQA.

       To address these requirements under CEQA, the Air District contracted with
Environmental Audit, Inc., an environmental consultant, to prepare a CEQA Initial Study
to evaluate the potential for significant adverse environmental impacts as a result of the
Proposed Amendments. This Initial Study is being published in conjunction with this Staff
Report and the Proposed Amendments. The Initial Study found that there is no substantial
evidence suggesting that the Proposed Amendments will have any significant adverse
environmental impacts. Accordingly, District staff have prepared a proposed Negative
Declaration under CEQA for consideration by the Board of Directors.



 44              SECTION VI | REGULATORY ANALYSES
            STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


        Air District staff will present the proposed Negative Declaration for consideration
by the Board of Directors, along with the Initial Study, all of the supporting information in
the record, and any comments from interested members of the public. After considering
all of this information, if the Board determines in its own independent judgment there is
no substantial evidence that the project will have a significant effect on the environment,
it may adopt the Negative Declaration to support its approval of the Proposed
Amendments. Interested members of the public are encouraged to review and comment
on the Initial Study and proposed Negative Declaration, and to provide any comments to
Air District staff and to the Board of Directors.

       C.       BAAQMD Cost Recovery Policy

       The Air District is also required under the Cost Recovery Policy adopted by the
Board of Directors on March 7, 2012, to ensure that any new regulatory amendments
recover their costs through fees. District staff considered the potential cost impacts to the
Air District as a result of the Proposed Amendments and found them to be minimal. The
Proposed Amendments will make only minor revisions to the way District staff implement
the NSR and Title V permitting programs, and they are not expected to generate any
substantial additional work for District permitting or other staff, above what staff are
already required to do under the existing programs. There is no need for any new or
revised regulatory fees associated with the Proposed Amendments.




                                                                SECTION VI | REGULATORY ANALYSES   45
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


VII.   PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND PUBLIC COMMENTS

       The Proposed Amendments are the product of a year’s work by Air District Staff
with input from a large number of interested stakeholders, including EPA Region IX and
ARB staff, representatives from the regulated community and industry groups,
representatives from environmental and advocacy organizations, and interested
members of the public. Engagement and participation by these stakeholders has resulted
in significant improvements to the Proposed Amendments as they have evolved during
this process.

        Air District Staff began this process in 2016 after EPA published its limited approval
and limited disapproval of the Air District’s NSR permit program. As explained in Section
II.D., EPA approved the program generally, but identified a number of areas where the
Air District needs to make certain revisions to be fully consistent with the federal Clean
Air Act. Air District staff prepared draft revisions to address these identified deficiencies,
and then met with EPA Region IX staff to ensure that they satisfied EPA’s concerns. Air
District staff also conferred with Air Resources Board staff as part of this process to
ensure that the draft revisions satisfied California statutory requirements as well.

         When the draft revisions were complete, Air District staff circulated them for public
review and comment. Staff published the drafts on May 11, 2017, accompanied by a 45-
page Workshop Report that provided a detailed summary and an explanation of the
reasons for the proposed revisions and what they would accomplish. Air District staff
published the Workshop Report and draft regulatory amendments on the District’s
website, and also sent notification by US mail and by email to all contacts on the District’s
lists of potentially interested parties.

       Air District staff then held a series of public workshops in June of 2017 to engage
with interested members of the public. The public workshops included a presentation by
Air District staff explaining the reasons why the District was proposing the regulatory
revisions; what the revisions would involve; and what the revisions would mean for
affected facilities, for air quality in the Bay Area, and for the public at large. The staff
presentation was then followed by an open question-and-answer and discussion forum,
which allowed staff to engage in a discussion with the attendees to provide additional
information and get public input and feedback. The dates and locations of the public
workshops are summarized below:




 46         SECTION VII | PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & COMMENTS
          STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


                          Rule Development Public Workshops

              Date:                       Location:
              June 12, 2017               Air District Headquarters
                                          375 Beale Street
                                          San Francisco, CA
              June 12, 2017               City of Martinez City Council Chambers
                                          525 Henrietta Street
                                          Martinez, CA
              June 13, 2017               City of Fremont Family Resource Center
                                          Millennial Room – Suite A120
                                          39155 Liberty Street
                                          Fremont, CA

Each of the public workshops was also webcast to allow interested members of the public
to attend remotely. In addition, Staff also made an archived webcast available on the Air
District’s website for later viewing by any interested members of the public who were not
able to attend at the time of the live presentation. Over 50 people attended the workshops
in person, with over 20 more participating in the webcasts.

        Air District staff also solicited written comments on the drafts published at the
workshop stage. Staff scheduled the close of the comment period to be two weeks after
the public workshops to allow interested members of the public to be able to attend the
workshops and engage in an initial discussion of the draft revisions, and then still have
time to go back and finalize their input in the form of written comments. District Staff also
made themselves available throughout the process by phone and in person to answer
questions, explain issues, and receive input from members of the public. District staff
have had a large number of communications – by telephone, by email and in person –
with interested members of the public during this process.

        Air District staff received important public feedback from this workshop process,
and staff wish to thank all who took the time to provide input. Staff have prepared written
responses to the comments received, which are provided in Appendix B to this Staff
Report. Based on the comments, District staff have made further revisions to the initial
drafts, which are reflected in the final version of the Proposed Amendments that staff are
proposing for adoption by the Board of Directors.

       Based on this public process, Air District staff initially published a final version of
the Proposed Amendments on August 25, 2017, which staff noticed for a public hearing
before the Air District’s Board of Directors on October 18, 2017. After that initial
publication, however, two further developments gave rise to a need to make further
revisions to the Proposed Amendments.


                                                   SECTION VII | PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & COMMENTS   47
               STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6



        First, Air District staff completed a series of discussions with EPA Region IX staff
regarding their approach to for calculating the amount of offset required when a major
source is modified, which is different from how the Air District calculates offsets as
described in Section III.A.8. above. After further discussion with EPA Region IX staff, Air
District staff have realized that the Air District can address this difference through the
“offsets equivalence demonstration” procedure outlined in Section III.A.8. Air District staff
have therefore made additional revisions to the drafts published on August 25, 2017, for
this purpose.

        Second, EPA published its proposed conditional approval of the 2012 revisions to
the emissions banking provisions in Regulation 2-4 on September 14, 2017.14 EPA
identified certain additional deficiencies in Regulation 2-4 that were not addressed in the
drafts of the Proposed Amendments published on August 25, 2017. Air District staff have
addressed these deficiencies in the drafts being published today, as discussed in Section
III.A.10. Adopting these banking revisions will allow EPA’s proposed conditional approval
to be converted to a full (unconditional) approval.

        The Proposed Amendments reflect both of these further revisions to the versions
that were published on August 25, 2017. Air District staff are re-publishing the Proposed
Amendments with these revisions, and will propose that the District’s Board of Directors
consider them for adoption at the public meeting scheduled for December 6th, 2017.
These further revisions are discussed in detail in Sections III.A.8. and III.A.10. of this Staff
Report. Air District staff have also updated the CEQA Initial Study and Proposed Negative
Declaration and the socioeconomic impact analysis for the Proposed Amendments to
reflect these further revisions (although the conclusions reached in those documents have
not changed as these further revisions are relatively minor). Air District staff are also re-
noticing the Proposed Amendments in conformance with all applicable noticing
requirements to ensure that all interested members of the public have full notice of all
aspects of the Proposed Amendments, including these two additional revisions that staff
have made since August 25, 2017.

      Interested members of the public are encouraged to submit comments on the
Proposed Amendments. Written comments should be addressed to Greg Stone, Bay
Area Air Quality Management District, 375 Beale Street, Suite 600, San Francisco, CA
94105. Written comments also can be sent by e-mail to gstone@baaqmd.gov. Written
comments on the proposed amendments will be received during the period from
Friday, October 13th, 2017, until 5:00 p.m. on Monday, November 13 th, 2017.


14
     See supra, fn. 4.

 48              SECTION VII | PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & COMMENTS
         STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6


Interested members of the public can also submit comments at the public hearing
scheduled for December 6th, 2017. Note that the Air District will consider all
comments received on the earlier version of the Proposed Amendments published
in August, 2017, in addition to comments on the current version. Members of the
public do not need to re-submit any comments that they submitted on the earlier
version.




                                                  SECTION VII | PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & COMMENTS   49
             STAFF REPORT – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO AIR DISTRICT REGULATION 2, RULES 1, 2 AND 6



VIII. CONCLUSION AND STAFF RECOMMENDATION

        For the reasons discussed in the foregoing Staff Report, Air District Staff
recommend that the Board of Directors adopt the Proposed Amendments. The Proposed
Amendments have met all applicable legal requirements for adopting amendments to
District regulations, including both substantive and procedural requirements. The
Proposed Amendments have also been developed in coordination with interested
stakeholders and have incorporated helpful comments received from members of the
public. The Proposed Amendments will strengthen the Air District’s NSR and Title V
permitting programs and ensure that they can be implemented consistently and efficiently.
The Proposed Amendments will also allow EPA to fully approve the Air District’s programs
under the Clean Air Act.

       Air District Staff respectfully submit that the Board of Directors should exercise the
legal authority granted to it by legislature of the State of California under the Health and
Safety Code and the adopt the Proposed Amendments as the policy and regulations of
the Bay Area Air Quality Management District. To do so, Staff recommend that the Board
of Directors approve the following two actions:

      •   Adoption and Approval of a “Negative Declaration” under the California
          Environmental Quality Act finding and declaring that, in the independent judgment
          and analysis of the Board, and based on the entire record including the CEQA
          Initial Study prepared for the Proposed Amendments and any and all public
          comments received, there is no substantial evidence that the Proposed
          Amendments will have a significant adverse effect on the environment.

      •   Adoption of the Proposed Amendments, as set forth in Appendix A hereto.




 50            SECTION VIII | CONCLUSION & STAFF RECOMMENDATION
