Bay Area Air Quality Management District




    MANUAL OF PROCEDURES




              VOLUME II
ENGINEERING PERMITTING PROCEDURES

                PART 4
    NEW AND MODIFIED SOURCES
    OF TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS
                                     MANUAL OF PROCEDURES
                                                             VOLUME II
                       ENGINEERING PERMITTING PROCEDURES

                                 PART 4
           NEW AND MODIFIED SOURCES OF TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS


                                                                   INDEX


1. INTRODUCTION ..........................................................................................4-1

2. REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR SOURCES WITH TAC EMISSIONS...........4-2
    2.1     REVIEW PROCESS ..................................................................................................... 4-2
    2.2     PERMIT REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................................... 4-3
    2.3     TAC EMISSIONS ........................................................................................................ 4-4
    2.4     TAC TRIGGER LEVELS ............................................................................................. 4-4
    2.5     HEALTH RISK SCREENING ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES ...... 4-5

3. PERMIT APPLICATIONS ............................................................................4-5
    3.1     PROCEDURES ............................................................................................................. 4-6
    3.2     FEES ............................................................................................................................ 4-7
    3.3     APPLICATION INFORMATION ..................................................................................... 4-8
    3.4     ADDITIONAL COMPLETENESS CRITERIA ............................................................... 4-14

4. REGULATION 2, RULE 5, NEW SOURCE REVIEW OF TAC ..................4-15
    4.1 APPLICABILITY .......................................................................................................... 4-15
    4.2 BEST AVAILABLE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY FOR TOXICS (TBACT) ................. 4-19
    4.3 PROJECT RISK REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................ 4-19

5. GLOSSARY ...............................................................................................4-20




                                                                         i
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                                                         June 15, 2005
                                 VOLUME II
                    ENGINEERING PERMITTING PROCEDURES

                             PART 4
        NEW AND MODIFIED SOURCES OF TOXIC AIR CONTAMINATS

                           REF: BAAQMD Regulation 2, Rule 1
                                BAAQMD Regulation 2, Rule 5


   1. INTRODUCTION

        In 1986, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District Board of Directors
        adopted a plan to reduce public exposure to toxic air contaminants
        (TACs) in the San Francisco Bay Area. One of the plan elements was for
        District staff to begin reviewing permit applications for new and modified
        sources for potential health risks associated with any emitted TACs. The
        goals of this review were to: (1) prevent significant increases in health
        risks from newly constructed or modified stationary sources, and (2)
        reduce health risks by requiring improved air pollution controls when
        older, more highly emitting, sources were modified or replaced. After
        holding a public workshop on the matter, the District adopted a Risk
        Evaluation Procedure (REP) and Risk Management Policy (RMP) in
        1987.

        The REP established a methodology for completing health risk screening
        analyses (HRSA) for new and modified sources that was based on
        guidelines developed by a statewide working group (Air Toxics
        Assessment Manual, CAPCOA, 1987). The RMP established specific
        criteria for permit issuance under which it was determined that the TAC
        emissions from a proposed project would not cause, or contribute
        significantly to, an unacceptable adverse health risk for a member of the
        public. The RMP also specified that the District’s Air Pollution Control
        Officer was ultimately responsible for risk management, and could
        consider a variety of factors when determining the acceptability of a
        proposed project and whether to issue or deny a permit.

        The District’s REP and RMP were updated several times since their
        original adoption, primarily in response to revisions in statewide health
        risk assessment and risk management guidelines. These revisions
        included risk assessment guidelines adopted for use in the Air Toxics Hot
        Spots (ATHS) Program, and risk management guidelines for new and
        modified sources adopted by CARB. The District established a specific
        RMP for dry cleaners that allowed permits to be issued for health risks
        within the action range identified in the CARB risk management

                                           4-1
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                 June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


        guidelines, provided that the Best Available Control Technology and all
        reasonable risk reduction measures were employed. The District also
        established a specific risk management policy for diesel-fueled engines
        so that limitations would not need to be placed on standby engines during
        emergency use.

        In 2005, the District’s REP and RMP were codified into Regulation 2, Rule
        5: New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants. A number of program
        enhancements were also made, primarily to conform with risk
        assessment guideline revisions made by Cal/EPA’s Office of
        Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA), and risk
        management guidelines adopted by CARB. This Part of the Manual of
        Procedures (MOP) provides guidance on the District’s Air Toxics NSR
        Program, and on permit application requirements for sources that emit
        TACs. The guidance provided in this Part is intended to be a companion
        to Regulation 2, Rules 1 and 5, and to clarify the requirements contained
        therein. None of the procedures described in this Part may be construed
        to relieve any person of the obligation to comply with any applicable
        requirement of Regulation 2, Rule 1, or Regulation 2, Rule 5.


   2. REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR SOURCES WITH TAC EMISSIONS

        The District requires that the health impacts from all new and modified
        sources that emit TACs be evaluated before an Authority to Construct or
        Permit to Operate is issued, in order to ensure that a proposed project will
        not cause, or contribute significantly to, an unacceptable adverse health
        risk for an individual. This evaluation program is referred to as new
        source review of toxic air contaminants. The health impact review
        requirements and the criteria for an acceptable project are implemented
        through the District’s Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic
        Air Contaminants.

        This section describes the District’s review process for sources with TAC
        emissions.    Permit application requirements for sources with TAC
        emissions are discussed in Section 3. The applicability of Regulation 2,
        Rule 5 and its requirements are clarified in Section 4.

        2.1     Review Process
                The following list of steps provides an overview of the District’s
                review process for new and modified sources with TAC emissions.
                Steps or review procedures that are unique to sources with TAC
                emissions are discussed in more detail in the following sections.



                                           4-2
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                   •    Identify all sources and/or abatement devices that will emit
                        TACs.
                   •    Use the Regulation 2, Rule 1 Permit / Exemption Flow Chart
                        to determine if any of the proposed equipment is excluded
                        from permit requirements pursuant to Regulation 1-110 or
                        exempt from permit requirements pursuant to Regulations
                        2-1-105 or 2-1-113.
                   •    Calculate the maximum hourly and maximum annual TAC
                        emissions from each source and/or abatement device.
                   •    Compare the TAC emissions from each source or
                        abatement device to the TAC trigger levels in Table 2-5-1.
                   •    Determine if a permit application is required for any of the
                        proposed equipment pursuant to Regulations 2-1-316
                        through 319.
                   •    Submit permit application, if required.
                   •    Determine if any sources are new or modified sources of
                        toxic air contaminants as defined in Regulations 2-5-214
                        and 2-5-215.
                   •    Identify any related permit applications and all new or
                        modified sources of toxic air contaminants that constitute
                        the project as defined in Regulation 2-5-216.
                   •    Determine the TAC emission increases for the project in
                        accordance with Regulation 2-5-601.
                   •    Compare the TAC emission increases for the project to the
                        TAC trigger levels in Table 2-5-1.
                   •    If a TAC emission increase for a source or the project
                        exceeds a Table 2-5-1 TAC trigger level, conduct a Health
                        Risk Screening Analysis for the project.
                   •    Evaluate project for compliance with Regulation 2, Rule 5.

        2.2     Permit Requirements
                General permit requirements for equipment and operations are
                discussed in MOP, Volume II, Part 2. The procedures for
                identifying sources and abatement devices and determining when
                permit applications are required for sources with TAC emissions
                are much the same as the procedures for other types of sources.
                Unusual cases, where the permit requirements for TAC sources
                may differ from the requirements for sources without TAC
                emissions, are discussed below in Section 3.




                                           4-3
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4         New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants



        2.3     TAC Emissions
                The applicability of many permitting and new source review
                requirements depends of the level of TAC emissions from the
                source or project.     Sections 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 describe the
                information that the District needs in order to calculate the TAC
                emissions from sources and projects.

        2.4     TAC Trigger Levels
                Due to the large number of new and modified sources that emit
                TACs and the finite resources available for evaluating the health
                impacts from these sources, the District has developed several
                tools to streamline the health impact evaluation process. One of
                these tools is the District’s table of toxic air contaminant trigger
                levels (Regulation 2, Rule 5, Table 2-5-1).

                The TAC trigger levels are emission rate thresholds below which it
                would be very unlikely that a source or project would cause, or
                contribute significantly to, an adverse health risk to the surrounding
                community. The TAC trigger levels were developed based on de
                minimis health risks using conservative assumptions regarding
                how emissions are released to the atmosphere, how they are
                transported and dispersed to off-site locations, and the duration of
                a person’s exposure. Sources emitting TACs at emission rates
                below these trigger levels are not expected to cause, or contribute
                significantly to, an unacceptable adverse health risk for any
                individual.

                In June 1995, the District adopted a set of TAC Trigger Levels in
                Regulation 2, Rule 1 (Table 2-1-316: Toxic Air Contaminant
                Trigger Levels). These trigger levels have been revised several
                times since 1995, as new information about health impacts and
                other data became available. Upon adoption of Regulation 2, Rule
                5, Table 2-1-316 was replaced by Table 2-5-1. Table 2-5-1
                includes both acute trigger levels (in units of pounds per hour) and
                chronic trigger levels (in units of pounds per year).1 These acute
                and chronic trigger levels are used to determine if permit
                requirements apply to certain new and modified sources that
                otherwise would be exempt from the need to obtain District
                permits. Permit application requirements are discussed below in
                Section 3. The trigger levels are also used to determine whether
                new and modified sources that are subject to District permit
                requirements must comply with Regulation 2, Rule 5. The


        1   Table 2-1-316 contained only chronic trigger levels.

                                                 4-4
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                            June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                applicability of Regulation 2, Rule 5 is discussed below in Section
                4.

        2.5     Health Risk Screening Analysis Requirements and
                Procedures
                In general, a health risk screening analysis (HRSA) is required for
                any permit applications involving new or modified sources, where
                the TAC emissions from a source or project exceed one or more
                TAC trigger levels. An HRSA may also be required for other
                reasons such as determining permit requirements for sources
                subject to Regulation 2-1-316, or for CEQA purposes.

                If an HRSA is required by Regulation 2, Rules 1 or 5, the analysis
                will be conducted in accordance with the District’s Health Risk
                Screening Analysis Guidelines.        These guidelines will be
                maintained         on       the      District’s      web        site
                (http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/air_toxics/risk_procedures_policies/hr
                sa_guidelines.pdf) and will specify, or contain references to, the
                procedures to be followed for determining acute hazard index,
                chronic hazard index, and cancer risk. In general, these guidelines
                will conform to the Health Risk Assessment Guidelines established
                by OEHHA for use in the Air Toxics Hot Spots Program.

                The information the District requires in order to conduct an HRSA
                is listed in Section 3.3.3 below.


   3. PERMIT APPLICATIONS

        Permit applications are required for all new and modified sources emitting
        TACs that are subject to the District’s permit requirements (Regulations 2-
        1-301 and 2-1-302). A permit application is not required for a new or
        modified source if the source is determined to be exempt from permitting
        requirements because:
        (a)     the source qualifies for an exemption from permit requirements
                pursuant to Regulation 2, Rule 1, Sections 103 or Sections 114-
                128, and
        (b)     the source has no TAC emissions exceeding an acute or chronic
                trigger level listed in Table 2-5-1, and
        (c)     the source does not otherwise require a permit under the
                requirements of Regulation 2-1-316.2, 317, 318, or 319.

        In accordance with Regulation 2-1-316.1, permits may be required for
        new and modified sources that would otherwise qualify for an exemption
        from permit requirements pursuant to Regulations 2-1-103 or 2-1-114
                                           4-5
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


        through 1-1-128, if the source emits a TAC at an emission rate that
        exceeds an acute or chronic trigger level listed in Table 2-5-1. For such
        sources, an evaluation of the health risks resulting from TAC emissions
        needs to be completed to determine if permits are required. The District
        may request that the owner or operator of a new or modified source that
        is potentially subject to Regulation 2-1-316 demonstrate that the source
        complies with the requirements of Regulations 2-1-316.1 and 316.2. The
        owner/operator of such a source may also submit a permit application
        and the District will evaluate the health impacts from the source, and any
        control measures used by the source, to determine if the source satisfies
        the requirements of Regulations 2-1-316.1 and 316.2 and is thereby
        allowed to retain an exemption from permit requirements.

        Any new or modified sources that are constructed without an Authority to
        Construct or operated without a Permit to Operate may be subject to
        enforcement action and additional permit application fees. Existing un-
        permitted sources that do not have a current exemption from District
        permit requirements are also subject to enforcement action and additional
        application fees, unless the source was covered by a valid exemption and
        the source lost its exempt status due to changes in District, California, or
        federal regulations.

        Permit applications for sources with TAC emissions are subject to the
        general requirements and procedures discussed in MOP Volume II, Part
        2 “Permits, General”. The specific permit application requirements and
        procedures that apply only to sources that emit TACs are discussed in
        more detail below.

        3.1     Procedures
                Most applications for sources with TAC emissions can be handled
                within the typical permitting time frames discussed in MOP,
                Volume II, Part 2, Section 2. The District will generally make a
                completeness determination within 15 working days of receiving
                the application, and make a final decision within 35 working days
                of the date that the application is declared complete (the
                “completeness” date). However, applications involving sources
                with TAC emissions over a trigger level require additional
                information (i.e., risk screening analysis form, including a plot plan
                or map showing source locations, property boundaries and nearby
                receptor locations) before the application will be declared
                complete. Applicants should ensure that all of the forms, maps,
                data, and other information requested in Sections 3.3 and 3.4 are
                included in the application package in order to avoid delays due to
                submission of an incomplete application.


                                           4-6
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


        3.2     Fees
                Permit application fees are established in Regulation 3. In
                accordance with Regulation 3, Schedules B - K, sources that emit
                a TAC at a rate in excess of a trigger level listed in Table 2-5-1 are
                subject to risk screening fees and toxic surcharges. The risk
                screening fee is a one-time fee that shall be paid for each permit
                application (similar to filing and initial fees), while the toxic
                surcharge is an annual fee for each permitted source (similar to the
                permit to operate fee). These fees are discussed in more detail in
                Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 below.

                3.2.1 Risk Screening Fee (RSF)
                        The risk screening fee applies to any permit applications for
                        new or modified sources, where the emissions from the
                        project require a health risk screening analysis pursuant to
                        Regulation 2-5-401. This fee consists of a flat charge per
                        application plus a charge per source that is generally equal
                        to the initial fee for that source. For gasoline dispensing
                        facilities, the RSF is a flat charge per application. Consult
                        the appropriate fee schedule for each type of source in the
                        application to determine the applicable risk screening fee.
                        The appropriate risk screening fee for a source should be
                        based on the maximum permitted usage levels or maximum
                        potential to emit for that source and should also include any
                        secondary TAC emissions from abatement equipment that
                        control emissions from that source.

                        As discussed in Section 3.3.1, a project, as defined in
                        Regulation 2-5-216, includes any new or modified sources
                        of TACs in the current application and may also include new
                        or modified sources of TACs that were permitted in previous
                        permit applications. For the purposes of calculating the risk
                        screening fee for the current application, any sources that
                        are considered part of the project but that were permitted
                        under previous applications are not subject to the risk
                        screening fee, unless the source is being modified under the
                        current application.

                        The risk screening fee shall be included when calculating
                        any applicable late fees (Regulation 3-310) or the small
                        business discount (Regulation 3-302.1).

                3.2.2 Toxic Surcharge
                        The toxic surcharge applies to any source that emits a TAC
                        at a rate above a chronic trigger level listed in Table 2-5-1.

                                            4-7
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                        Consult the appropriate fee schedule for the source to
                        determine the applicable toxic surcharge. This fee must be
                        paid, in addition to the permit to operate fee, for each year
                        of source operation. For new and modified sources, the
                        toxic surcharge should be based on the maximum permitted
                        usage levels or maximum potential to emit for that source
                        and should also include any secondary TAC emissions from
                        abatement equipment that control emissions from that
                        source. For permit renewals, the toxic surcharge should be
                        based on actual usage or emission levels that have been
                        reported to the District.

                        The toxic surcharge shall be included when calculating any
                        applicable back fees (Regulation 3-303).

                        As with permit to operate fees, the toxic surcharge shall be
                        refunded if an applicant cancels or withdraws a permit
                        application or the Authority to Construct expires and the
                        source was never operated.

        3.3     Application Information
                Permit applications must contain all the information necessary to
                determine the scope of the project, characterize the emissions
                from the project, and determine compliance with all applicable
                requirements. For projects emitting TACs, sufficient information
                must be submitted in order to: identify the project, calculate
                emissions increases for compounds listed in Table 2-5-1, conduct
                a health risk screening analysis (if project emission increases
                exceed a trigger level), and determine compliance with TBACT
                requirements (if applicable).

                The application requirements for projects involving TAC emissions
                are discussed in more detail below. In addition, the District has
                published several documents that may be useful for preparing
                permit application packages. The District’s Permit Handbook
                contains guidance regarding application forms, fees, emission
                calculations, applicable regulations, and permit conditions for
                various different source types. The Permit Handbook is available
                on line at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/handbook/default.htm. The
                District maintains a BACT/TBACT Workbook that specifies TBACT
                requirements for commonly permitted sources. The BACT/TBACT
                Workbook also describes the procedures for calculating the cost
                effectiveness of a control measure and making a BACT/TBACT
                determination for a specific source or project. This document is
                intended to be used as a guide by BAAQMD staff engineers, the

                                            4-8
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                regulated community, and interested members of the public in
                determining the specific emission limits and emission control
                devices or techniques needed to meet BACT and TBACT
                requirements. The BACT/TBACT Workbook is available online at:
                http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/bactworkbook/default.htm.              The
                District’s Health Risk Screening Analysis Guidelines describe the
                procedures to be followed when conducting a health risk screening
                analysis. Generally, these guidelines are based on the OEHHA Air
                Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines. These
                guidelines discuss the types of air dispersion models that may be
                used, the selection of meteorological data and other input
                parameters for the models, the types of receptors that may be
                involved, the criteria for establishing receptor locations, approved
                health effects values for the compounds listed in Table 2-5-1, and
                the procedures for calculating acute hazard index, chronic hazard
                index, and cancer risk. The Health Risk Screening Analysis
                Guidelines          are       available       on        line      at:
                (http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/air_toxics/risk_procedures_policies/hr
                sa_guidelines.pdf) All documents are/will be available from the
                District’s Public Information Department (415-749-4900). Consult
                the District’s website (http://www.baaqmd.gov) for additional
                information about rules, regulations, permitting requirements, and
                other programs.

                3.3.1 Project Identification
                        As with any permit application, the applicant must identify
                        the sources, abatement devices, operational changes,
                        and/or permit condition changes, which are the subject of
                        the permit application. For large or complicated projects,
                        the applicant should include plot plans showing the
                        locations of equipment and emission points and process,
                        material, and pollutant flow diagrams. For all projects, the
                        applicant should provide completed data forms for each
                        source,    abatement      device,    and   emission    point
                        (http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/forms/index.htm)             and
                        equipment specifications, vendor literature, process
                        descriptions, or other written material, as necessary, to
                        explain or establish maximum possible or maximum
                        permitted capacities (storage volumes, operating rates,
                        throughput rates, fuel usage rates, etc.).

                        For applications involving new or modified sources of TACs
                        that are subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5 (see Section 2
                        above), the applicant should also identify any equipment or
                        modifications that are considered to be part of the project,
                        as defined in Regulation 2-5-216. In addition to all new or

                                           4-9
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4          New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                         modified sources in the current application, the project shall
                         include new or modified sources of TACs that were
                         permitted within two years prior to the completeness date
                         for the current application, unless the applicant
                         demonstrates to the satisfaction of the APCO that the
                         construction or modification covered by the current
                         application was neither (1) a reasonable foreseeable
                         consequence of the previous project(s), nor (2) a critical
                         element or integral part of the previous project(s). For
                         modified sources, any successive modifications of a source
                         occurring after January 1, 1987 - including increases in
                         permitted throughput levels, changes in raw materials,
                         products, fuels, or the formulations of these materials, and
                         debottlenecking actions - are considered to be part of the
                         project. Sources that are determined to be exempt from
                         permitting requirements are not part of the project, even if
                         the exempt source will emit a TAC.

                         Regulation 2-5-215 defines a new source of TAC. This
                         definition is essentially the same as the definition of new
                         source in Regulation 2-1-232, except that the applicability
                         date for a new source of TAC is January 1, 1987 instead of
                         March 7, 1979.2

                         Regulation 2-5-214 describes how to determine whether or
                         not a physical or operational change constitutes a modified
                         source of TAC.

                 3.3.2 Emissions Characterization
                         The applicant must supply sufficient information for the
                         District to determine maximum hourly and/or maximum
                         annual emissions for any TAC listed in Table 2-5-1 that is
                         emitted from the source or abatement device. Although
                         many TACs have both acute and chronic trigger levels,
                         some TACs have only a chronic trigger level or, in a few
                         cases, only an acute trigger level.       Maximum hourly
                         emissions need to be determined only for a TAC that has an
                         acute trigger level. Likewise, maximum annual emissions
                         need to be determined only for a TAC that has chronic
                         trigger level.




        2   January 1, 1987 is the initial effective date of the District’s Toxic NSR program, which
            was first adopted as a policy and procedure document in 1987 and later codified as
            Regulation 2, Rule 5 in 2005.

                                                 4-10
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                 June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4        New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                        As stated in Regulation 2-5-601.1, the TAC emissions that
                        are subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5 requirements include
                        any emissions that result from routine operation of a source
                        or emissions that are reasonably predictable. These routine
                        or predictable emissions may include continuous and
                        intermittent releases or may result from predictable process
                        upsets or leaks and may be subject to enforceable limiting
                        conditions. Emissions resulting from accidental releases
                        and unpredictable circumstances (such as earthquakes,
                        fires, or floods) are not subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5
                        requirements. Emissions that may occur due to accidental
                        releases are subject to other regulatory requirements such
                        as federal and state emergency planning and pollution
                        prevention laws. For example, a broken pipe could result in
                        an accidental release that would not be subject to
                        Regulation 2, Rule 5. However, emissions from relief valves
                        could be intermittent but reasonably predictable and would
                        be subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5. Emissions that may
                        occur during a fire are unpredictable and are not subject to
                        Regulation 2, Rule 5. Furthermore, Regulation 2-5-111
                        specifically exempts TAC emissions resulting from
                        emergency use of emergency standby engines from the
                        requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 5.

                        The District typically uses maximum hourly and maximum
                        annual capacities and TAC emission factors in order to
                        determine the maximum hourly and maximum annual
                        emission rates. The emission factors may be derived from
                        source test data, certified emission rates, vendor
                        guarantees, AP-42 3, the California Air Toxic Emission
                        Factors (CATEF) database 4, or other literature.

                        If desired, the applicant may propose maximum hourly and
                        maximum annual emission rates for a source or abatement
                        device. The applicant should provide emission calculations
                        to support the proposed emission rates and supply copies of
                        any source test data, vendor guarantees, or literature
                        citations that were used in the emission calculations.




       3   AP-42 is an EPA publication of emission factors for many different source types. The
           report is entitled Compilation of Air Pollution Emission Factors, fifth edition, and is
           available on line at: www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ap42/index.html.
       4   The California Air Resources Board (CARB) maintains a database of emission
           factors for many different source types. It is organized similar to AP-42 and is also
           available on line at: http://www.arb.ca.gov/ei/catef/catef.htm.

                                                4-11
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                               June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                3.3.3 Health Risk Screening Analysis Information
                        For any source or project that emits a TAC in excess of a
                        Table 2-5-1 TAC trigger level, the applicant must submit a
                        complete health risk screening analysis (HRSA) form
                        (http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/forms/hrsa.pdf),         or    the
                        equivalent information.      One HRSA form should be
                        completed for each source with TAC emissions. If a source
                        has multiple emission points or if multiple sources vent to a
                        single emission point, an HRSA form should be completed
                        for each stack or emission point. If the emissions are
                        fugitive in nature with no specific emission point, the HRSA
                        form should also be completed, with the source considered
                        to be an area or volume source.

                        The HRSA form specifies that a plot plan or map be
                        included showing the location of the sources in the project,
                        the facility boundaries, the nearest businesses, and the
                        nearest residences.     Aerial photographs may also be
                        acceptable for this purpose. The maps should be drawn to
                        scale with compass directions correctly indicated. The
                        maps should identify the location of each stack (or area of
                        release for an area or volume source) that emits a TAC, the
                        property lines for the facility, areas zoned for
                        commercial/industrial use, the locations of the nearest
                        worker receptors, areas zoned for residential use, and the
                        locations of the nearest residential receptors. For stack
                        sources, the location and dimensions (including heights) of
                        the stacks and any nearby buildings (generally within 250
                        feet of the stack) should be provided so that the effects of
                        aerodynamic downwash can be evaluated. The application
                        should also contain information regarding the expected
                        operating schedule of each source, so that temporal
                        variations of TAC emission rates can be evaluated (e.g.,
                        based on time of day, season, etc.).

                        An applicant may elect to submit a completed health risk
                        screening analysis that follows the specified guideline
                        procedures. Submittal of such an analysis does not,
                        however, eliminate the need to provide the basic health risk
                        screening analysis information previously described.
                        Applicants are encouraged to submit copies of all model
                        input files used in a risk screening analysis in electronic
                        format. For larger projects, it is recommended that a
                        protocol describing the details of the proposed health risk
                        assessment methodology be submitted for District review
                        prior to the completion of the analysis.

                                           4-12
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants




                        For a modified source, the APCO may take into
                        consideration reductions in health risks that have occurred
                        since January 1, 1987 (at that modified source only) due to
                        reformulations, material substitutions, process changes,
                        equipment upgrades, or other emission reduction measures
                        or due to changes in health effects values. These health
                        risk reductions shall only be used to correctly identify the
                        overall change in health risks for the modified source (health
                        risks for the proposed configuration of the modified source
                        compared to the baseline health risks from the source as it
                        existed on January 1, 1987). These health risk reductions
                        cannot be used to net out of any Regulation 2, Rule 5
                        requirements.

                3.3.4 TBACT Determinations
                        New and modified sources with health risks exceeding a
                        threshold in Regulation 2-5-301 are required to have Best
                        Available Control Technology for Toxics (TBACT). TBACT
                        can include emissions control equipment, process
                        modifications, material substitutions, control procedures,
                        work practice standards, or a combination of these methods
                        of reducing TAC emissions. For guidance on TBACT
                        requirements for commonly permitted sources, consult the
                        District’s BACT/TBACT Workbook, which is available online
                        at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/bactworkbook/default.htm.

                        Applications for sources that are subject to the TBACT
                        requirement must include adequate information for the
                        District to determine whether this requirement is met.
                        Applicants are encouraged to provide documentation that
                        can be used to support TBACT determinations for affected
                        sources.       Appropriate documentation may include:
                        descriptions of the control methods, alternative materials, or
                        abatement devices that will be used and source test data,
                        vendor guaranteed emission rates, destruction efficiencies,
                        or other data for the chosen control method. For diesel-fired
                        IC engines, EPA or CARB certified emission factors should
                        be submitted for the proposed engine model and model
                        year. If the applicant is claiming that a control method is
                        infeasible or too costly, the applicant should provide capital
                        and operating costs for each rejected control method and/or
                        any documentation necessary to justify that a control
                        method is infeasible.



                                           4-13
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


        3.4     Additional Completeness Criteria
                As discussed in MOP, Volume II, Part 2, Section 6, a permit
                application will be declared complete when the applicant has
                provided sufficient information for the District to fully characterize
                the emissions from all new or modified sources and to determine
                whether or not these devices will comply with all applicable
                requirements. The completeness criteria checklist for general
                permit applications (see MOP, Volume II, Part 2, Section 6) should
                be used as a starting place for applications involving new and
                modified sources of TACs. The checklist below should be used for
                applications with new or modified sources of TAC in addition to the
                general permit application completeness criteria checklist. The
                following checklist expands on a few items listed in the general
                checklist and identifies additional criteria that are necessary before
                an application involving new/modified sources of TACs will be
                declared complete.

                              Additional Completeness Criteria
                              for Projects with TAC Emissions

               Identify all sources, abatement devices, and emission points in the
               current application that emit TACs. Provide the application
               numbers for any potentially related projects (new or modified
               sources permitted within the last two years and, for a modified
               source, any previous applications for that modified source
               submitted since January 1, 1987).

               Provide maximum hourly and maximum annual TAC emission rates
               or sufficient information for the District to calculate these TAC
               emission rates. These maximum TAC emission rates include
               routine or reasonably predictable TAC emissions but exclude
               emissions occurring due to accidental releases or other
               unpredictable circumstances such as emergency use of emergency
               standby engines. Supply all necessary supporting documentation:
               data forms; maximum operating times; maximum storage
               capacities, fuel usage rates, or other operating rates; equipment
               specifications; vendor guarantees; emission calculations; source
               test data; and emission factor citations.

               For any proposed modification of a source that was permitted prior
               January 1, 1987 or for any proposed modification of a source that
               was permitted after January 1, 1987 pursuant to a loss of
               exemption, provide sufficient information for the District to calculate
               the baseline TAC emission rates for that modified source.



                                           4-14
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


               For any source or project with a TAC emission rate that exceeds a
               Table 2-5-1 TAC trigger level, complete a Health Risk Screening
               Analysis (HRSA) form http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/forms/hrsa.pdf.
               One HRSA form is required for each source of TAC emissions in
               the project. If a source has multiple emission points or if multiple
               sources vent to a single emission point, one HRSA form is required
               for each stack or emission point. HRSA forms are also required for
               any fugitive emission sources or area or volume sources. The
               information requested on the HRSA form may be alternatively
               provided in tabular form.

               Provide maps and/or aerial photographs of the facility and
               surrounding community. The maps should be drawn to scale,
               specify compass directions, and identify the location of each stack
               (or area for an area source) that emits a TAC, the property lines for
               the facility, and the nearest residential and worker receptors. For
               any stacks or emission points that are located near buildings or
               structures, the map should also indicate the location, dimensions,
               and height of each of the nearby structures.

               Provide information necessary to demonstrate compliance with
               TBACT requirements, such as: descriptions of control methods or
               abatement devices, vendor guarantees, certified emission factors,
               emission calculations, destruction efficiencies, source test results,
               or other data.


   4. REGULATION 2, RULE 5: NEW SOURCE REVIEW OF TACS

        District Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic Air
        Contaminants (TACs) implements the District’s Air Toxics New Source
        Review Program for new and modified sources of TAC emissions. This
        rule includes health impact review requirements and sets criteria for
        acceptable projects. The applicability of this rule and the standards are
        discussed in more detail below.

        4.1     Applicability
                As described in Regulation 2-5-101, Regulation 2, Rule 5 applies
                to a new or modified source that: (a) is required to obtain a District
                authority to construct or permit to operate and (b) emits a TAC
                listed in Table 2-5-1. These applicability criteria are discussed in
                more detail below.




                                           4-15
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                4.1.1 Sources That Are Subject To Regulation 2, Rule 5
                        In general, the requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 5 are
                        evaluated and imposed on a source only during the permit
                        application process for that source. In accordance with
                        Regulation 2-5-112.1, any permit applications for new or
                        modified sources of TACs that are submitted after July 1,
                        2005 will be evaluated for compliance with Regulation 2,
                        Rule 5. However, a source that was permitted within two
                        years of the date that a complete application is received for
                        a new project will be subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5, unless
                        the applicant demonstrates that the previous project and the
                        current project are not related. As identified in Regulation 2-
                        5-216, the applicant must demonstrate that the current
                        project was not a reasonably foreseeable consequence of
                        the previous project and that the current project is not an
                        integral part or critical element of the previous project. Per
                        Regulation 2-5-112.2, the requirements of this rule also
                        apply to a source that was constructed or modified after
                        January 1, 1987, if the operator of the source fails to obtain
                        the required Authority to Construct or Permit to Operate for
                        that source or modification.

                        Any new or modified source, which has an emission rate of
                        a TAC that is greater than an acute or chronic trigger level
                        listed in Table 2-5-1, is subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5 when
                        the source is required to obtain a District permit. Any new
                        or modified source that has an emission rate of a TAC
                        exceeding a TAC trigger level may be required to have a
                        permit to operate pursuant to Regulation 2-1-316.1.
                        Therefore most new and modified sources with TAC
                        emissions over a trigger level are subject to Regulation 2,
                        Rule 5, except as described in Section 4.1.2 below.

                        If a new and modified source has no TAC emissions over
                        the trigger levels, the source may possibly be subject to
                        Regulation 2, Rule 5, if the source is part of a larger related
                        project. Sections 4.1.2 and 4.1.3 below describe the criteria
                        that must be met before a source with emissions less than
                        the TAC trigger levels can be excluded or exempted from
                        the requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 5.

                4.1.2 Sources That Are Not Subject To Regulation 2, Rule 5
                        In accordance with Regulations 2-5-101 and 2-5-112,
                        Regulation 2, Rule 5 only applies to new and modified
                        sources. Any source, which is determined to be not a new

                                            4-16
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                        source and not a modified source pursuant to the definitions
                        in Regulations 2-5-215 and 2-5-214, respectively, is not
                        subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5. Sources meeting these
                        criteria include grandfathered sources that have not been
                        modified since January 1, 1987 and sources that have lost
                        an exemption from permitting requirements pursuant to
                        Regulation 2-1-424 or 2-1-425.

                        Existing permitted equipment that has been permitted or
                        modified after January 1, 1987 but that is not part of a
                        current project will not be subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5,
                        provided the owner/operator has obtained all required
                        permits for this equipment. In other words, Regulation 2,
                        Rule 5 will not be retroactively applied to existing permitted
                        equipment unless (a) the permit holder applies for a
                        modification of an existing permitted source, or (b) the
                        permit holder modifies an existing source but fails to apply
                        for a modification that required a permit, or (c) the APCO
                        finds that the source is related to a current project.
                        Regulation 2-5-216 explains that existing permitted sources
                        will be deemed related to a current project if the existing
                        source was permitted within the two years immediately prior
                        to the completeness date of the current application.
                        However, at the applicant’s request, the APCO will also
                        consider other factors about the relationship between the
                        existing permitted source and the current project before
                        determining whether or not the existing source will be
                        deemed part of the current project. For such applications,
                        the applicant must show that the current project is not a
                        reasonably foreseeable consequence of the previous
                        project and is not a critical element or integral part of the
                        previous project.

                        In accordance with Regulation 2-5-101, sources that are
                        exempt from permitting requirements pursuant to Regulation
                        2, Rule 1 are not subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5. Sources
                        that are exempt from permit requirements (pursuant to
                        Regulation 2, Rule 1, Sections 103 - 128) and that emit
                        TACs at less than the Table 2-5-1 trigger levels are clearly
                        exempt from permit requirements; and are therefore not
                        subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5.

                        Most sources with emissions exceeding a TAC trigger level
                        are subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5. However, sources that
                        would normally be exempt from permit requirements
                        (pursuant to Regulation 2, Rule 1, Sections 103 or 114-

                                           4-17
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4     New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                        128), but that have an emission rate over a TAC trigger may
                        potentially retain an exemption from permit requirements as
                        described in Regulation 2-1-316.1. The owner/operator of
                        any such potentially exempt sources should submit a permit
                        application in accordance with MOP, Volume II, Parts 2 and
                        4. The procedures in Section 2.4 above shall be used to
                        determine the health impacts of the potentially exempt
                        source. If this analysis indicates that the source will comply
                        with the TBACT requirements (if applicable) of Regulation 2-
                        5-301 and that the project will comply with the project risk
                        limits of Regulation 2-5-302, then the source will be allowed
                        to retain the exemption from permit requirements. Any
                        source which is found to be exempt from permit
                        requirements using these procedures, is thereafter not
                        subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5, pursuant to Regulation 2-5-
                        101, unless the source is modified and the modification
                        results in new or additional TAC emissions.

                4.1.3 Sources That Are Exempt From Regulation 2, Rule 5
                        Although new and modified sources that have emissions
                        above a TAC trigger level are generally subject to
                        Regulation 2, Rule 5, new or modified sources that have
                        emissions below all the TAC trigger levels are not
                        necessarily exempt from Regulation 2, Rule 5. Sources
                        with emissions less than the TAC trigger levels are only
                        exempt from Regulation 2, Rule 5 (pursuant to Regulation
                        2-5-110), if TAC emissions from the entire project are less
                        than the Table 2-5-1 TAC trigger levels. A project is defined
                        in Regulation 2-5-216 as all new and modified sources
                        within an application, any modified source in the project with
                        consecutive modifications occurring after January 1, 1987,
                        and all new or modified sources permitted within two years
                        of the completeness date of the current application (if the
                        current project is related to a previous application). In other
                        words, a source with emissions less than the TAC trigger
                        levels could be subject to Regulation 2, Rule 5, if it is part of
                        a larger project that has total combined emissions over a
                        TAC trigger level. These requirements were put in place to
                        prevent circumvention of Regulation 2, Rule 5.

                        The requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 5 are intended to
                        apply to routine and predictable emissions from a source or
                        operation.     Emissions arising from a non-routine or
                        unpredictable process upset, an unintentional spill, leak, or
                        other emergency situation are generally not subject to
                        Regulation 2, Rule 5. Regulation 2-5-111 clarifies the

                                            4-18
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                        June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                        applicability of the Toxic NSR rule for emergency standby
                        engines. Pursuant to Regulation 2-5-111, emissions arising
                        from emergency use of an emergency standby engine or
                        from emission testing required by the APCO are exempt
                        from the requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 5. Emissions
                        arising from non-emergency use are subject to Regulation
                        2, Rule 5. Regulation 9, Rule 8, Sections 230 to 233
                        contain the pertinent definitions for emergency and non-
                        emergency use of engines.

        4.2     Best Available Control Technology for Toxics (TBACT)
                Any source that is subject to this rule and that results in a cancer
                risk of more than 1.0 in one million (10-6) or a chronic hazard index
                of more than 0.20 is required to have Best Available Control
                Technology for Toxics (TBACT). For cases where multiple
                sources vent to a single emission point, TBACT is generally
                required for all sources venting to that emission point.

                TBACT can include abatement equipment, process modifications,
                material substitutions, control procedures, work practice standards,
                or a combination of these methods. For guidance on TBACT
                requirements for commonly permitted sources, consult the
                District’s BACT/TBACT Workbook:
                http://www.baaqmd.gov/pmt/bactworkbook/default.htm

        4.3     Project Risk Requirement
                The project risk requirement of Regulation 2-5-302 applies to all
                new and modified permitted sources within a project. A project is
                defined in Regulation 2-5-216 and includes all new or modified
                sources in the current application, any prior modifications
                (occurring after January 1, 1987) of a source that is being
                modified, and all new or modified sources permitted within two
                years of the completeness date of the current application (if the
                current project is related to a previous application). Sources that
                are exempt from permitting requirements or that were permitted
                pursuant to a loss of exemption should not be considered part of a
                project.

                All projects subject to this rule must comply with the project risk
                limits listed in Regulation 2-5-302.1 through 2-5-302.3. Therefore,
                all projects subject to this rule must have (a) a cancer risk of no
                more than 10.0 in one million (10-5), (b) a chronic hazard index of
                no more than 1.0, and (c) an acute hazard index of no more than
                1.0. Otherwise, the permit to construct or operate for the proposed

                                           4-19
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


                new or modified equipment in the current application will be
                denied.

                The project risk is determined based on the emission increases for
                the project. The project risk limits apply after installation of TBACT
                or other proposed control requirement. If an initial HRSA indicates
                that a project risk limit will be exceeded, the applicant will be given
                an opportunity to refine the project risk determination by accepting
                permit conditions that will limit operating time or emissions or by
                using site-specific data.


   5. GLOSSARY

        AP-42
        An EPA document: Compilation of Air Pollution Emission Factors, fifth
        edition, that describes emission factors for various source types.

        APCO
        Air Pollution Control Officer

        ATCM
        Air Toxic Control Measure

        BACT
        Best Available Control Technology

        CAA
        The federal Clean Air Act

        Cal/EPA
        California Environmental Protection Agency

        CAPCOA
        California Air Pollution Control Officers Association

        CARB
        California Air Resources Board

        CATEF
        California Air Toxic Emission Factors is a database of toxic emission
        factors for various source types that is maintained by CARB.

        CFR
        The Code of Federal Regulations


                                           4-20
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


        EPA
        The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

        HAP
        Hazardous Air Pollutant

        HI
        Hazard Index

        HQ
        Hazard Quotient

        HRSA
        Health Risk Screening Analysis

        MACT
        Maximum Available Control Technology

        MOP
        The District's Manual of Procedures

        NESHAPS
        National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants

        NSPS
        Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources

        NSR
        New Source Review

        OEHHA
        Cal/EPA Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment

        REP
        Risk Evaluation Procedure

        RSF
        Risk Screening Fee

        RMP
        Risk Management Policy

        TAC
        Toxic Air Contaminant



                                           4-21
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 4    New and Modified Sources of Toxic Air Contaminants


        TBACT
        Best Available Control Technology for Toxic Emissions




                                           4-22
Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                       June 15, 2005
