      Bay Area Air Quality Management District




          MANUAL OF PROCEDURES

                    VOLUME II

   ENGINEERING PERMITTING PROCEDURES




                     PART 3

MAJOR FACILITY REVIEW PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
                                                      VOLUME II

                            ENGINEERING PERMITTING PROCEDURES

                                    PART 3
                  MAJOR FACILITY REVIEW PERMIT REQUIREMENTS


                                                       INDEX


1.   INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................... 3-1

2.   APPLICATIONS ................................................................................................ 3-5

     2.1       Major Facility Review Permits ............................................................. 3-5

     2.2       Synthetic Minor Operating Permits ................................................... 3-10

     2.3       Potential to Emit Determinations ...................................................... 3-12

3.   FEES ............................................................................................................... 3-13

4.   PERMIT CONTENT......................................................................................... 3-14

     4.1       Applicable Requirements................................................................... 3-15

     4.2       Permit Duration................................................................................... 3-15

     4.3       Terms and Conditions for Reasonably
               Anticipated Operating Scenarios ...................................................... 3-15

     4.4       Terms and Conditions for Emissions Trading ................................. 3-16

     4.5       Compliance ......................................................................................... 3-16

     4.6       Monitoring Requirements .................................................................. 3-18

     4.7       Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements.................................. 3-18

     4.8       Emergency Provisions ....................................................................... 3-19



                                                               i
         4.9       Acid Rain Allowance Condition ......................................................... 3-20

         4.10      Severability Clause ............................................................................. 3-20

         4.11      Standard Conditions to Implement EPA
                   Title V Regulations and 40 CFR 70.................................................... 3-21

         4.12      Requirement to Pay Fees ................................................................... 3-22




         4.13      Provisions Regarding the Federal
                   Enforceability of Conditions .............................................................. 3-22

         4.14      Inspection and Entry Requirements.................................................. 3-22

         4.15      Requirements for Compliance Certification ..................................... 3-22

         4.16      Permit Shield....................................................................................... 3-23

5.       TRADE SECRETS & AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION ............................. 3-24

6.       PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & EPA REVIEW.................................................... 3-24

         6.1       Major Facility Review Permits ........................................................... 3-25

         6.2       Synthetic Minor Operating Permits ................................................... 3-27

         6.3       Appeals and Objections ..................................................................... 3-27

7.       DISTRICT PERMITTING PROCEDURES....................................................... 3-28

         7.1       Major Facility Review Permits ........................................................... 3-28

         7.2       Synthetic Minor Operating Permits ................................................... 3-30

8.       TITLE IV: APPLICABILITY ............................................................................ 3-31

GLOSSARY ............................................................................................................... 3-34



                                                             ii
                                       VOLUME II
                          ENGINEERING PERMITTING PROCEDURES

                                         PART 3
                   MAJOR FACILITY REVIEW PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
                              (Adopted November 3, 1993)
                (Amended September 16, 1998; October 20, 1999, May 2, 2001)


                               REF: BAAQMD Regulation 2, Rule 6
                                    BAAQMD Regulation 1
                                    BAAQMD Regulation 2, Rule 1


1.    INTRODUCTION

      On November 15, 1990, Congress passed the Clean Air Act (Act) Amendments. These
      amendments initiated several important programs, including one for federally enforceable
      operating permits. The operating permit program was incorporated into Title V of the Act.
      The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated regulations in the
      Code of Federal Regulations (40 CFR Part 70) to implement Title V. The Major Facility
      Review (MFR) program as implemented by Regulation 2, Rule 6, and this chapter of the
      Manual of Procedures is the District's response to the EPA regulations.

      The District’s rule and the Manual of Procedures were adopted on November 3, 1993.
      They were submitted to EPA for approval on November 15, 1993. EPA granted interim
      approval to the District’s program on July 24, 1995. This is the effective date of the
      program in the Bay Area.

      The BAAQMD requires a federally enforceable operating permit for each major facility,
      major hazardous air pollutant facility, phase II acid rain facility, subject solid waste
      incinerator facility, and designated facility. This permit is called a "Major Facility Review
      Permit" and is issued in addition to any "Authority to Construct" and "Permit to Operate"
      required by Regulation 2-1.

      The District also allows a facility that is defined as major, but which is not otherwise
      required to have a major facility review permit, to apply for and receive a revision to its
      permit to operate that would limit the facility's potential to emit such that the facility is no
      longer a major facility, but a synthetic minor facility. The facility's permit then becomes a
      synthetic minor permit.

      A major facility is a facility with the "potential to emit" more than 100 tons per year of any
      regulated air pollutant, 10 tons per year of any single hazardous air pollutant (HAP) on the



                                                  3-1

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                      May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


      EPA's list of 188 pollutants (listed in Section 112(b) of the Clean Air Act), 25 tons per year
      of any combination of HAPs, or a lesser quantity of a HAP as the EPA administrator may
      establish by rule.

      "Potential to emit" is defined as the maximum capacity of a facility to emit a pollutant
      based on its physical and operational design. If the facility has enforceable limitations on
      emissions, the facility is considered to have a lower potential to emit. The limitation may
      be federally or locally enforceable. A federally enforceable limitation means that the limit
      has been imposed as a result of review under a federally mandated program such as
      NSR, PSD, NSPS, NESHAPs, or MFR. A permit condition that limits emissions pursuant
      to a rule or regulation that has been approved by the EPA for inclusion in the State
      Implementation Plan (SIP) is also federally enforceable. A District or state requirement
      that has not been approved for inclusion in the SIP by EPA is not federally enforceable
      but can limit potential to emit for the purposes of major facility review.

      Fugitive emissions (those emissions which could not reasonably pass through a stack,
      chimney, vent, or other functionally-equivalent opening) of regulated air pollutants are not
      included in the potential to emit unless the facility belongs to one of the following
      categories:

         1.    Coal cleaning plants (with thermal dryers)
         2.    Kraft pulp mills
         3.    Portland cement plants
         4.    Primary zinc smelters
         5.    Iron and steel mills
         6.    Primary aluminum ore reduction plants
         7.    Primary copper smelters
         8.    Municipal incinerators capable of charging more than 250 tons of refuse per day
         9.    Hydrofluoric, sulfuric, or nitric acid plants
         10.   Petroleum refineries
         11.   Lime plants
         12.   Phosphate rock processing plants
         13.   Coke oven batteries
         14.   Sulfur recovery plants
         15.   Carbon black plants (furnace process)
         16.   Primary lead smelters
         17.   Fuel conversion plants
         18.   Sintering plants
         19.   Secondary metal production plants
         20.   Chemical process plants
         21.   Fossil-fuel boilers (or combination thereof) totaling more than 250 million British
               thermal units per hour heat input
         22.   Petroleum storage and transfer units with a total storage capacity exceeding
               300,000 barrels


                                                    3-2

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


         23.    Taconite ore processing plants
         24.    Glass fiber processing plants
         25.    Charcoal production plants
         26.    Fossil fuel-fired steam electric plants of more that 250 million British thermal
                units per hour heat input
         27.    Any other stationary source category which is regulated under Section 111 or
                112 of the Clean Air Act, but only with respect to those air pollutants that have
                been regulated for that category

      Fugitive emissions of all hazardous air pollutants are included in the total potential to emit.

      The District's emission inventory contains actual emissions rather than a calculation of
      "potential to emit." Since the potential to emit for all facilities is not known, the District
      based the program on actual emissions for the first four years. Major facilities were only
      required to apply for major facility review or synthetic minor permits or demonstrate that
      their potential to emit was below all major facility review thresholds if they had actual
      emissions equal to or greater than the following thresholds for any consecutive 12 month
      period ending on or after January 1, 1992:

         •     50 tons per year of any regulated air pollutant,
         •     70% of the major facility threshold for any hazardous air pollutant, or
         •     15 tons per year of any combination of hazardous air pollutants.

      The four year deferral period was not extended to any facility with permit conditions that
      explicitly limited emissions to a level equal to or greater than 100 tons per year of a
      regulated air pollutant or 10 tons per year of a hazardous air pollutant. Such a plant had
      to apply for a major facility review or synthetic minor permit during the initial period. Also,
      any facility in a category specifically designated by EPA as needing a Title V permit could
      not be deferred.

      This revision of the rule and MOP does not contain a deferral. Facilities with actual
      emissions above 25% of the major facility thresholds must show that their potential to
      emit is below the thresholds or apply for a synthetic minor or major facility review permit.
      The District will determine the status of facilities with actual emissions lower than 25% of
      the thresholds.

      This section of the Engineering Permitting Procedures provides the information an
      applicant will need to prepare and submit to the District an application for a major facility
      review permit or a synthetic minor permit. It includes an overview of the types of
      situations that would require an application, as well as guidelines for determining what
      type of permit is needed. Sections describing each permit type will contain, as applicable,
      completeness criteria, permit content, the timeline for issuing the permit, and the permit
      term. Information is also provided on fees, trade secrets, public notice procedures, EPA
      review, and appeals.


                                                     3-3

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements




      Major facility review permits are designed to include in one document all the requirements
      for each source of emissions at a facility. These permits will be made available to EPA
      and the public prior to issuance, when they are renewed (every five years), and when
      there is a significant revision to a federally enforceable term or condition. The District will
      indicate on each major facility review permit those terms and conditions that are not
      federally enforceable.

      The process of writing a major facility review permit requires an evaluation of emissions
      and emission factors sufficient to determine applicable requirements and fees; a
      determination of what District, state and federal regulations apply to each source; an
      analysis of existing permit conditions; a compilation of all required test methods and
      procedures applicable to each source; an analysis of the SIP rules that apply to each
      source; and the imposition of monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting conditions to
      ensure compliance with applicable regulations. Additionally, all conditions in a major
      facility review permit must be specified as being either federally enforceable or
      enforceable only by the District. This is because some District rules and regulations have
      been imposed by state or District mandate and not due to a federal statute or regulation.
      Permit conditions resulting only from state or District mandated regulatory provisions are
      not federally enforceable and must be so noted in the permit.

      Synthetic minor permits require some of the same elements as major facility review
      permits, such as the evaluation of emissions and the verification of emission factors.
      However, synthetic minor operating permits differ fundamentally from major facility review
      permits in some important respects. The first is that all synthetic minor operating permits
      will have practically enforceable permit conditions to limit the potential (permitted)
      emission levels to below the thresholds for major facilities. The second is that synthetic
      minor operating permits are not required to list all the applicable requirements in the detail
      required for major facility review permits. Prior to issuing a synthetic minor operating
      permit, the facility and the District will need to determine whether the facility falls into any
      other category that might require a Title V permit.

      The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a government agency, such as
      the BAAQMD, that undertakes or approves a discretionary project to prepare
      documentation addressing the potential impacts of that project on all environmental
      media. However, the District's Major Facility Review Rule (Regulation 2-6) and the Manual
      of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3 are categorically exempt from the requirements of the
      California Environmental Quality Act as stated in the CEQA Guidelines Section 15281:
      "CEQA does not apply to the issuance, modification, amendment, or renewal of any
      permit by an air pollution control district or air quality management district pursuant to
      Title V, as defined in Section 39053.3 of the Health and Safety Code, or pursuant to an
      air district Title V program established under Sections 42301.10, 42301.11, and 42301.12
      of the Health and Safety Code, unless the issuance, modification, amendment, or renewal
      authorizes a physical or operational change to a source or facility.”


                                                     3-4

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                      May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements




2.    APPLICATIONS

      A facility subject to the requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 6, Major Facility Review, must
      initially determine whether it will apply for a major facility review permit, a synthetic minor
      permit, or demonstrate that its potential to emit is below the major facility thresholds. If an
      application is required, the application process should follow the timeliness and
      completeness provisions specified below. All applications should be signed by the
      facility's responsible official and mailed to the District's Permit Services Division.

      2.1   Major Facility Review Permits

            2.1.1 Timely Applications

                   Initial Applications
                   In general, an initial application for a major facility review permit must be
                   submitted so that the District receives it within twelve months from the date
                   the facility becomes subject to the permitting requirements of Regulation 2,
                   Rule 6. A new facility becomes subject on the date that the facility
                   commences operation.

                   An existing major facility with emissions equal to or greater than 50 tons per
                   year of any regulated air pollutant, 70% of the major facility threshold for any
                   single HAP, or 15 tons per year of any combination of HAPs became subject
                   to the permitting requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 6 on the date of EPA's
                   final action approving the District's Title V program ('program effective date').
                   This date was July 24, 1995.

                   An existing major facility with actual emissions below these levels must apply
                   for a major facility review permit by October 20, 2000.

                   An initial application from an existing phase II acid rain facility that was not
                   also a major facility was subject to the same deadlines applicable to major
                   facilities. Submittal of the acid rain portion of the applications was required by
                   January 1, 1996.

                   In a departure from the general timeliness requirement, an initial application
                   from an existing facility with fewer than 50 permitted sources was required by
                   the District by October 24, 1995.




                                                     3-5

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                          Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                   Applications for Renewals
                   An application for a five-year permit renewal should be received by the District
                   between six and twelve months prior to the date on which the permit is set to
                   expire.

                   Applications for Revisions
                   A facility must apply for a significant permit revision before commencing
                   operation of the change. If the permit prohibits the change, the facility must
                   obtain the significant permit revisions before commencing operation of the
                   change.

                   An application for a minor permit revision should be received by the District
                   prior to commencing any physical, operational, and/or administrative change
                   associated with the minor permit revision. The District will determine whether
                   the revision qualifies as a minor revision during the 30-day completeness
                   determination period.

                   These requirements do not relieve the applicant of the requirement to obtain
                   an authority to construct or permit to operate pursuant to Rules 2-1 or 2-2.

                   An application for an administrative permit amendment may be submitted at
                   the same time the change is implemented.

            2.1.2 Complete Applications

                   Any application, report, or compliance certification submitted for major facility
                   review shall contain a certification of truth, accuracy, and completeness by a
                   responsible official. This certification shall state that, based on information
                   and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in
                   the document are true, accurate, and complete. All major facility review
                   applications shall be sent to EPA by the applicant as well as to the District.

                   An initial or five year renewal application for a major facility review permit shall
                   consist of BAAQMD application forms and attachments which contain all the
                   following information in order to be considered complete:

                   a.    Identifying information, including company name and address (and plant
                         name and address if different), plant number, owner(s) name, agent (if
                         any), telephone number, and names of plant site manager or contact
                         person.

                   b.    A description of the facility's processes and products (by Standard
                         Industrial Classification Code) including any Codes associated with an
                         alternate operating scenario identified by the facility.


                                                     3-6

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                       May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                       Major Facility Review Permit Requirements




                   c.    Emission-related information including but not limited to: (1) emissions
                         (including fugitive emissions) of any regulated or hazardous air pollutant
                         from each source and each activity which produces emissions if the
                         emissions from each source or activity are equal to or greater than 2
                         tons per year of any single regulated air pollutant or 400 pounds per
                         year of any single hazardous air pollutant. The emission rates shall be
                         expressed in tons per year and also in such units as are required by any
                         applicable standard reference test method; (2) identification and
                         description of all permitted, exempt, and excluded sources of emissions
                         (3) identification of any applicable air quality-related District, state,
                         and/or federal Clean Air Act requirements, and test methods that apply
                         to each permitted, exempt, or excluded source or emissions-producing
                         activity included in (1) and (2) above; (4) emission rates (a) for each
                         source or emissions-producing activity included in (1) above in tons per
                         year; and (b) in such units as are required by any applicable standard
                         reference test method; (5) emission rates resulting from any alternate
                         operating scenarios; (6) fuel(s), fuel use, raw material(s), production
                         rate(s), and operating schedule(s) for each source or activity, as
                         needed, in order to determine or regulate emissions; (7) identification
                         and description of any air pollution control equipment and compliance
                         monitoring devices or activities; (8) limitations on the facility's
                         operations affecting emissions; (9) any work practice standard for any
                         regulated air pollutant; (10) the calculations on which all emissions
                         information are based; and (11) any other information required by an
                         applicable regulation or test method.

                         Emission summaries and calculations for pollutants emitted in quantities
                         below the thresholds listed in c(1) above are not required for sources
                         and activities that have emissions of other pollutants at or above these
                         thresholds.

                         [The requirement to include emission calculations for a source may be
                         satisfied by the submission of emission inventory calculations provided
                         by the District, based on throughput data from the most recent annual
                         renewal and calculated using APCO approved emission factors. If
                         accurate emission inventory calculations for a source are not available
                         from the District, the facility must provide the calculations and explain
                         any assumptions regarding emission factors and abatement factors.
                         For identical sources, facilities may submit one sample calculation
                         together with the throughput for each source. Calculations submitted in
                         a spreadsheet format are acceptable. The emission calculations
                         included in the permit application (whether those supplied by the District



                                                    3-7

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                   May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                          Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                         or calculated independently by the facility) must be certified by the
                         responsible official as complete, accurate, and true.]

                   d.    Other information necessary to implement and enforce other applicable
                         requirements or determine the applicability of any such requirement on
                         any source (whether permitted, exempt, or excluded) or any other
                         activity.

                   e.    An explanation of any proposed exemption from otherwise applicable
                         requirements.

                   f.    Any additional information necessary to define alternate operating
                         scenarios.

                   g.    A compliance plan for the facility which contains: (1) a description of
                         the compliance status of the facility with respect to all applicable
                         requirements; (2) a compliance statement asserting that the facility is
                         in compliance and will remain in compliance with existing requirements;
                         that the facility will be in compliance with future requirements (if
                         applicable); and/or if the facility is not currently in compliance, how it will
                         achieve compliance with all requirements;               (3)   a schedule of
                         compliance stating how a facility will achieve compliance in a timely
                         manner with future requirements and/or requirements currently not
                         being met (including a schedule of remedial measures with an
                         enforceable sequence of milestones which must resemble and be as
                         stringent as contained in any judicial consent decree or administrative
                         order to which the facility is subject); and (4) for facilities required to
                         have a schedule of compliance to remedy a violation, a schedule for
                         submission of certified progress reports no less frequently than once
                         every six months.

                         [The requirement for describing the compliance status of each permitted
                         source may be fulfilled by checking the “Compliance: Y/N” column in
                         the Applicable Requirements and Compliance Summary form. If a
                         source is out of compliance, the facility must submit a complete
                         Schedule of Compliance form for that source.]

                         The requirements for a compliance plan stated herein apply to phase II
                         acid rain facilities except where specifically superseded by regulations
                         promulgated for such facilities. (If necessary, the District will add a
                         chapter to the Engineering Permitting Procedures to incorporate such
                         requirements for Phase II Acid Rain Facilities.)




                                                      3-8

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                       May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                   h.    Requirements for compliance certification as follows: (1) a certification
                         of compliance with all applicable requirements by a responsible official;
                         (2) a statement of the methods used to determine compliance,
                         including a description of monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting
                         requirements, and test methods; and (3) a schedule for submission of
                         compliance certifications (at least annually, or more frequently as
                         required by an underlying applicable requirement or by the District).

                   i.    If the facility is a Phase II acid rain facility, any nationally standardized
                         forms for acid rain portions of permit applications and compliance plans
                         as required under Title IV of the Clean Air Act.

                   j.    A list of every source which is exempt or excluded from District
                         permitting requirements pursuant to Regulation 2, Rule 1 or Regulation
                         1 (including a specific reference to the section which provides each
                         applicable exemption or exclusion).

                   k.    A statement certifying that all fees required by District Regulation 3
                         have been paid.

                  Most of the data described in sections 2.1.2(a) to 2.1.2(k) must be submitted to
                  the District on the following Title V forms:
                        Stationary Source Summary
                        Total Stationary Source Emissions
                        Detailed Emissions Report
                        Exempt Source List
                        Abatement Devices
                        Applicable Requirements and Compliance Summary
                        Certification Statement
                        Compliance Certification Schedule

                  The Schedule of Compliance form may also be required if the facility is out of
                  compliance. The Operating Scenarios form is required if the facility wishes to
                  include alternate operating scenarios in the permit.

                   A complete application for a permit revision (significant or minor) or an
                   administrative permit amendment must include each item listed above only if it
                   is related to the proposed change. Also, the application must include: (1) a
                   description of the change, any change in emissions, and any new applicable
                   requirements that will apply if the change occurs; (2) draft language of all
                   proposed modified portions of the permit; and (3) a completed permit
                   application summary form, a summary of the proposed revision, and any
                   proposed revision to the compliance plan for the District to forward to EPA. In



                                                     3-9

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                      May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                   any event, the information submitted must be sufficient to evaluate the facility
                   and its application in order to determine all applicable requirements. If the
                   application is for a minor permit revision, it should also include certification
                   from a responsible official that the proposed revision meets the criteria for use
                   of minor revision procedures, a request that such procedures be used, and a
                   draft permit including the proposed change.

      2.2   Synthetic Minor Operating Permits

            Synthetic minor operating permits must have practically enforceable limits and
            conditions that ensure that the facility never exceeds the thresholds for a major facility.
            The permit may also contain limits and conditions that have been established pursuant
            to other District rules and regulations but do not contribute to establishing the synthetic
            minor limits. These limits and conditions shall be designated by an asterisk.

            Any change to a permit term or condition of a synthetic minor operating permit that
            (1) establishes a plantwide emission limit, (2) changes a limit necessary to keep the
            emissions below the synthetic minor thresholds, or (3) specifies the monitoring and
            recordkeeping requirements necessary to verify ongoing compliance is considered
            a synthetic minor operating permit revision.

            Any change at a facility with a synthetic minor operating permit that would be
            considered a modification under Regulation 2, Rule 2, New Source Review, shall
            comply with all the requirements in Regulations 1 and 2 for authorities to construct
            and with the "Permits, General" section of the District's Manual of Procedures,
            Volume II, Part 2. Any emissions increase above any synthetic minor limit is
            therefore subject to Best Available Control Technology if the increase is above the
            thresholds in Regulation 2-2-301 and must supply offsets if the increase is above
            the thresholds in Regulation 2-2-302.

            If an application for a revision to a synthetic minor operating permit would allow
            emissions to exceed the thresholds for a major facility, the facility must undergo
            preconstruction review in accordance with Regulation 2, Rule 2, petition the APCO
            for a cancellation of the synthetic minor permit, and apply for a major facility review
            permit in accordance with Regulation 2, Rule 6, prior to commencing the change.

            2.2.1 Timely Applications

                  a.     Initial Applications for Synthetic Minor Operating Permits

                         An existing major facility that chose to apply for a revision to a District
                         operating permit to become a synthetic minor facility was required to file
                         an initial application for a revision to its District operating permit by
                         August 3, 1994. This timing was required in order to provide the District



                                                    3-10

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                         with sufficient time to process the permit revision. Unless the permit
                         revision was completed, the facility had to apply for a major facility
                         review permit by July 24, 1996.

                         A facility that becomes subject to major facility review on October 20,
                         1999 shall have one year to: 1) apply for and obtain a synthetic minor
                         permit; 2) demonstrate that the potential to emit is less than each major
                         facility threshold; or 3) apply for a major facility review permit.

                         A facility that is not required to apply for a major facility review permit
                         may at any time apply for a revision to its permit to operate to convert it
                         to a synthetic minor operating permit.

                  b.     Revisions to Synthetic Minor Operating Permits

                         An application for a synthetic minor operating permit revision may be
                         submitted at any time. The facility may not commence any change
                         proposed in the application until after the permit is modified.

            2.2.2 Complete Applications

                   An application for a synthetic minor operating permit or for a synthetic minor
                   operating permit revision must contain the following elements to be
                   considered complete:

                   a.    District forms P-101C (Application Form), SMOP-ES (Permitted
                         Sources and Maximum Emissions), SMOP-EF (Total Facility
                         Emissions); SMOP-EX (List of Exempt Sources or Activities), and any
                         other relevant District permit application forms (e.g. colored Data Forms
                         for new sources, Data Form X for revised emission factor information);

                   b.    A statement certifying that any fees required by District Regulation 3
                         has been paid;

                   c.    Emission calculations showing the maximum annual and maximum
                         monthly emissions from each source (singly or grouped) such that total
                         emissions will be no greater than 95 tons per year of any regulated air
                         pollutant, no greater than 9 tons per year of any single hazardous air
                         pollutant, and no greater than 23 tons per year of any combination of
                         hazardous air pollutants. If fugitive emissions count toward determining
                         if the facility is a major facility (as defined in Section 2-6-212) they must
                         be included in the emission calculations.




                                                    3-11

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                      May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                         [If combined potential emissions from all exempt or miscellaneous
                         activities that do not require a permit are equal to or greater than 2 tons
                         per year of any regulated air pollutant or 1000 lbs per year of any
                         hazardous air pollutant, the calculations must include emissions from
                         these activities reflecting any restrictions to be imposed on them.
                         Include these emissions in Form SMOP-ES and SMOP-EF.]

                  d.     Proposed permit conditions that include throughput limits, specifications
                         of permitted materials, and any necessary restrictions on operations
                         such that facilitywide emissions will be no greater than 95 tons per year
                         of any regulated air pollutant, no greater than 9 tons per year of any
                         single hazardous air pollutant, and no greater than 23 tons per year of
                         any combination of hazardous air pollutants. However, in the case of
                         surface coating operations, emission limits without throughput limits
                         may be allowed, if the facility agrees to provide daily recordkeeping,
                         daily or monthly emission calculations (depending on circumstantial
                         details), and monthly year-to-date emission summaries.

                   e.    Proposed permit conditions imposing monitoring, recordkeeping and
                         reporting requirements sufficient to determine ongoing compliance.

      2.3   Potential to Emit Demonstrations

            A facility with a potential to emit that is below the thresholds that define a major
            facility, may petition the District to determine that the facility is not a major facility.
            In this case, the facility will be responsible for demonstrating its true potential to
            emit to the District in a satisfactory manner. This demonstration must be completed
            before the deadline for applying for a major facility review permit.

            The potential to emit is calculated using the following assumptions:
                 •     Each source operates at maximum capacity for the maximum number of
                       hours feasible for that source.
                 •     The effect of permit conditions on emissions is considered if the
                       conditions are enforceable.
                 •     The effect of abatement devices on emissions is considered to the
                       extent expressed in the requirement. For example, if the requirement is
                       for 90% abatement, the emissions reduction can only be considered at
                       90%, although the real abatement efficiency may be higher.
                 •     The effect on emissions of a District rule is considered.
                 •     The effect on emissions of NSPS, NESHAPS, and other federal rules is
                       considered in the potential to emit calculation.
                 •     AP-42 emission factors may be used to calculate the potential to emit.
                 •     Other emission factors may be used if approved by the APCO.




                                                    3-12

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                      May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                          Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


             The maximum possible emissions are calculated using the above assumptions and
             summarized for the entire facility.

             If the responsible official for a facility determines that the potential to emit of a
             facility is less than the thresholds in Section 2-6-212, said official may submit the
             calculations and petition the APCO to find that the facility is not a major facility.
             Should this demonstration be considered satisfactory by the APCO, the District will
             not require that the facility apply for a synthetic minor or major facility review permit.
             A copy of the potential to emit determination will then be approved by the District
             and placed in the District files for future reference. Any change to the facility after
             the potential to emit determination has been approved may change the status of the
             facility.

3.    FEES

      Major facilities, Phase II acid rain facilities, subject solid waste incinerator facilities, and
      designated facilities are subject to Title V. All of these facilities will pay the major facility
      review permit fees in Regulation 3, Schedule P, in addition to the annual renewal fees and
      any other fees that apply to the facility. The fees required by Schedule P are summarized
      below.

      Any facility subject to the permitting requirements of Regulation 2, Rule 6 will pay a fee
      per permitted source per year and a fee per ton of emissions of any regulated air pollutant
      per year. The emissions will be based on the facility's most recent reported throughput
      and calculated using APCO approved emission factors. This charge is the annual major
      facility review fee.

      Any facility that has a continuous emission monitor (CEM) or a parametric emission
      monitoring system (PEMS) shall pay an annual fee per monitor per pollutant. This fee
      does not apply to opacity monitors (COMS) or parameter monitors, such as instruments
      that solely measure temperature or pressure drop as a surrogate for emissions
      monitoring. Parametric monitoring systems are systems that measure a number of
      parameters and that use a model to determine emissions. They are used as an
      alternative to continuous emission monitors.

      Any facility that applies for a permit shield shall pay an application fee per shielded source
      or group of identically shielded sources. Separate fees shall be charged for each type of
      permit shield: 1) for limits that do not apply, and 2) subsumed monitoring. The total
      applicable permit shield fees shall be determined by the permitting engineer during the
      major facility review process associated with the application.

      An application for a synthetic minor operating permit must be accompanied by an
      application fee per permitted source up to a maximum fee.




                                                     3-13

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                       May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


      A facility applying for a significant permit revision or a minor permit revision to its major
      facility review permit; or for a synthetic minor operating permit revision shall pay an
      application fee per source that is associated with the revision.

      A facility that is subject to the public notice requirements for a permit or permit revision
      shall pay a fee that is equivalent to the cost of publication of the public notice in a major
      newspaper in the facility’s area.

      If the District accepts a facility's demonstration that its potential to emit is less than the
      major facility thresholds defined in Section 2-6-212, Schedule P will no longer apply to the
      facility. This review will be handled without additional charges.

4.    PERMIT CONTENT

      EPA has listed specifications for permit content for federal operating permits in 40 CFR
      70.6 (Code of Federal Regulations).

      The permit content for Title V permits will be more comprehensive than for current District
      permits. Until now, District permits have listed only plant numbers, source numbers,
      source names, and the specific permit conditions that apply to each source. Other
      district, state, and federal requirements are in the regulations, and these requirements are
      rarely reiterated in the permit. Major facility review permits are required to list all
      applicable requirements in the permit, the origin of the requirements, and to specify which
      requirements are federally enforceable.

      Following is a list of the required elements of major facility review permits:

         1.    Citations of or conditions containing applicable requirements, including the origin
               of each requirement
         2.    Permit duration
         3.    Terms and conditions for reasonably anticipated operating scenarios
         4.    Terms and conditions for the trading of emissions if the permit applicant requests
               them
         5.    Compliance
         6.    Monitoring
         7.    Reporting and recordkeeping requirements
         8.    Emergency provisions
         9.    For sources subject to the acid rain requirements, a permit condition prohibiting
               emissions exceeding any allowances that the source lawfully holds under Title IV
               of the Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder
         10.   A severability clause
         11.   Standard conditions to implement EPA Title V regulations and 40 CFR 70
         12.   A requirement to pay fees
         13.   Provisions regarding the federal enforceability of conditions


                                                    3-14

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                          Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            14.   Inspection and entry requirements
            15.   Requirements for compliance certification

      An explanation of each section is provided below. Items 8 through 15 above will be
      standard for all permits. The standard text for each is provided in subsections 4.8
      through 4.15.

      Additionally, a major facility review permit may include a provision for a permit shield, as
      defined in Section 2-6-233. This is further discussed in subsection 4.16 below.

      4.1     Applicable Requirements

              The permit must contain any applicable local and state requirements, and federal
              requirements imposed by the Clean Air Act. The federal operating permit program
              does not impose any new emission standards or limitations, but there is a
              requirement for all existing standards and limitations to be included in the permit.

              If the facility is subject to the acid rain program, this part of the permit must specify
              that if an applicable requirement of the Clean Air Act is more stringent than a
              requirement of the acid rain regulations, both requirements must be included in the
              permit, and both shall be enforceable by EPA.

              If the facility is operating under an alternative emission control plan (AECP) issued
              pursuant to a District rule in Regulation 8, its major facility review permit shall
              contain provisions or permit conditions that specify each applicable AECP standard
              in that rule. These standards ensure that any resulting emission limit has been
              demonstrated to be quantifiable, accountable, enforceable and based on replicable
              procedures.

      4.2     Permit Duration

              The permit term shall be set at five years unless both the District and the facility
              agree to a shorter term. The expiration date will be stated in the permit. When a
              permit is reopened, the expiration date will not change.

              If a new requirement is promulgated, and there are less than three years remaining
              on the permit, the facility is required to comply with the requirement, but the permit
              is not reopened until the permit is renewed.

      4.3     Terms and Conditions for Reasonably Anticipated Operating Scenarios

              Facilities may describe more than one operating scenario. An operating scenario is
              a mode of operation. For example, a refinery makes gasoline with a low Reid vapor
              pressure in the summer and a high Reid vapor pressure in the winter. If the



                                                     3-15

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                       May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            process changes are significant, it may be advantageous to the refinery to permit
            both modes of operation as operating scenarios.

            Permits are generally written to reflect the operations as described in a permit
            application. If various modes of operation are used, and only one is described in
            the permit, the facility is at risk of receiving violation notices.

            All operating scenarios must be in compliance with District regulations and other
            applicable requirements. Within that limitation, operating scenarios for normal,
            seasonal, start-up, and shutdown operations can be permitted. Changes of
            process, feed, and products can also be permitted.

            If more than one operating scenario is permitted for the plant, the following permit
            condition will be in the permit:

            "The facility must keep a contemporaneous record in a log when switching from one
            operating scenario to another."

      4.4   Terms and Conditions for Emissions Trading

            Sections 306 and 418 of Regulation 2, Rule 6 deal with emissions trading. A
            provision for emissions trading among two or more sources can be included in the
            permit if the facility agrees to an emissions cap; has procedures and recordkeeping
            requirements that make the trades quantifiable and federally enforceable; the
            provision does not interfere with an existing emission limit, and emissions trading is
            not in violation of Regulation 2, Rules 1 and 2, or any other applicable requirement.

            The procedure for adding emission trading provisions into a major facility review
            permit is as follows: 1) the facility must obtain approval for appropriate permit
            conditions by applying in accordance with Regulation 2, Rule 1; 2) the resulting
            permit conditions must be incorporated into the major facility review permit.

      4.5   Compliance

            A compliance schedule is required for all major facility review permits, even for
            those plants that do not have any outstanding compliance issues. The compliance
            schedule shall include the following:

                  A.     For applicable requirements with which the facility is in compliance, the
                         schedule will simply contain a statement that the facility will continue to
                         comply with all such requirements.




                                                    3-16

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                  B.     For applicable requirements that will become effective during the permit
                         term, the schedule will contain a statement that the facility will meet
                         such requirements on a timely basis.

                  C.     For applicable requirements with which the facility is not in compliance
                         at the time of permit issuance, a schedule of compliance including a list
                         of remedial measures, including an enforceable sequence of actions
                         with milestones, which will lead to compliance. This schedule will
                         resemble and be at least as stringent as that contained in any consent
                         decree or administrative order to which the facility is subject. If a
                         schedule of compliance has been issued by the District's Hearing
                         Board, the California Air Resources Board, the Environmental
                         Protection Agency, or any court, it must be included in the permit. The
                         schedule will be supplemental to the applicable requirement on which it
                         is based, and will not sanction non-compliance.

            State law does not allow the District to issue a District or Title V permit to a facility
            that is out of compliance unless the facility holds a variance or the Hearing Board
            issues an order of abatement to the facility. If the Hearing Board does issue a
            variance or order of abatement, the District will include them in the permit as part of
            the Schedule of Compliance.

            The facility is subject to enforcement by EPA even if it has a variance or a schedule
            of compliance. A variance shields the facility from enforcement by the District, but
            an order of abatement does not.

            When a plant has a schedule of compliance that obliges the plant to take some
            action, the permit shall require that the plant submit progress reports at least every
            six months, unless more frequent reports are required by the APCO.

            The permits will require that the responsible official for the facility submit an annual
            certification of compliance. The certification must list each applicable requirement,
            the compliance status, whether compliance was continuous or intermittent, the
            method used to determine compliance, and any other specific information required
            by the permit. The certification shall contain a statement that it is true, accurate, and
            complete, after reasonable inquiry, and be signed by a responsible official. The
            compliance certification must be submitted directly to EPA as well as to the District.

            Monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting are also required to enable the District to
            determine if a facility is in compliance with the regulations.




                                                    3-17

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


      4.6   Monitoring Requirements

            Applicable monitoring requirements are contained in the District's regulations and
            Manual of Procedures; Federal New Source Performance Standards; National
            Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; Title IV, Section 129 of the
            Clean Air Act; and permit conditions. Sections 114 and 504 of the Clean Air Act
            also have provisions that allow EPA to promulgate further monitoring requirements.
            These requirements are contained in the Code of Federal Regulations under 40
            CFR 64, Compliance Assurance Monitoring.

            The requirements in the above regulations contain extensive instructions on
            monitoring procedures. They include details on the calibration of instruments,
            source testing for verification, number of data points per time period, averaging, and
            statistical analysis. Such requirements will be included in the permit by reference.

            If a facility is not required by rules, regulations or statutes to engage in periodic
            testing or monitoring, the major facility review permit shall require periodic
            monitoring that is sufficient to ensure compliance. Records of material consumption
            may be enough to fulfill this requirement.

      4.7   Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

            The permit shall contain all the recordkeeping requirements in the applicable
            requirements and shall add any recordkeeping necessary to determine compliance.
            The permit shall require the use of terms, test methods, units, averaging periods,
            and other conventions consistent with the applicable requirements.

            The required records must also include the following information:

                  •      The date, place, and time of each data point
                  •      If an analysis is required, the date of the analysis and the person or
                         company that performed the analysis
                  •      The analytical technique used
                  •      The results of the analysis
                  •      The operating conditions at the time of sampling or measurement

            All records, including strip-chart recordings, calibration records, and maintenance
            records, must be kept for a period of at least five years.

            A report of all required monitoring must be submitted to the Director of Compliance
            and Enforcement every six months, in addition to any other reporting requirements.
            All instances of non-compliance shall be clearly identified in the report even if the
            non-compliance has already been reported. The report shall be certified by a
            responsible official as true, accurate, and complete, after reasonable inquiry.



                                                    3-18

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements




            The reporting periods shall be clearly defined in the permit. Facilities shall have one
            month after the end of the reporting period to prepare and submit the report.

            In addition, all instances of non-compliance with the permit shall be reported in
            writing to the Enforcement Division of the District within ten calendar days of the
            discovery of the non-compliance. Within thirty calendar days of the discovery of
            any incident of non-compliance, the facility shall submit a written report including
            the probable cause of non-compliance and any corrective or preventative actions.
            The non-compliance reports shall be certified by a responsible official as true,
            accurate, and complete, after reasonable inquiry. Following is the standard
            condition regarding monitoring reports and reports of non-compliance.

            “Reports of all required monitoring must be submitted to the District at least once
            every six months, except where an applicable requirement specifies more frequent
            reporting. The first reporting period for this permit shall be [date of issuance] to [six
            months later]. The report shall be submitted by [one month after end of reporting
            period]. Subsequent reports shall be for the following periods: [_____ 1st through
            ______ 30th or 31st] and [_____ 1st through ______ 30th or 31st], and are due on
            the last day of the month after the end of the reporting period. All instances of non-
            compliance shall be clearly identified in these reports. The reports shall be certified
            by the responsible official as true, accurate, and complete. In addition, all instances
            of non-compliance with the permit shall be reported in writing to the District’s
            Compliance and Enforcement Division within 10 calendar days of the discovery of
            the incident. Within 30 calendar days of the discovery of any incident of non-
            compliance, the facility shall submit a written report including the probable cause of
            non-compliance and any corrective or preventative actions. The reports shall be
            sent to the following address:
                               Director of Compliance and Enforcement
                               Bay Area Air Quality Management District
                               939 Ellis Street
                               San Francisco, CA 94109
                               Attn: Title V Reports”

      4.8   Emergency Provisions

            An emergency is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable
            events beyond the control of the permittee, that requires the permittee to take
            immediate corrective action to restore normal operation and that causes the
            permittee to exceed an emission limitation under the permit due to unavoidable
            increases in emissions attributable to the emergency.

            The District validates emergencies in two ways: through the granting of breakdown
            relief in accordance with District Regulation 1, Section 433, or by the granting of a


                                                   3-19

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            variance pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 42350 et seq. by the District's
            Hearing Board. However, the validation by the District of any such emergency will
            not provide relief from federal enforcement. In order to make explicit reference to
            the emergency provisions authorized by District regulation and by state law, the
            permit will contain the following provisions:

            "The permit holder may seek relief from enforcement action in the event of a
            breakdown, as defined by Section 1-208 of the District's Rules and Regulations, by
            following the procedures contained in Regulation 1, Sections 431 and 432. The
            District will thereafter determine whether breakdown relief will be granted in
            accordance with Regulation 1, Section 433.

            "The permit holder may seek relief from enforcement action for a violation of any of
            the terms and conditions of this permit by applying to the District's Hearing Board
            for a variance pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 42350. The Hearing
            Board will determine after notice and hearing whether variance relief should be
            granted in accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in Health and
            Safety Code Section 42350 et seq. "

            "The granting by the District of breakdown relief or the issuance by the Hearing
            Board of a variance will not provide relief from federal enforcement."

            Below is the text, with explanations, for subsections 4.9 through 4.15. The text is in
            quotations.

      4.9   Acid Rain Allowance Condition

            "Acid Rain Facilities: Each acid rain facility shall hold one sulfur dioxide allowance
            on January 30 for each ton of sulfur dioxide emitted during the preceding year from
            January 1 through December 31."

      4.10 Severability Clause

            "In the event that any provision of this permit is invalidated by a court or tribunal of
            competent jurisdiction, or by the Administrator of the EPA, all remaining portions of
            the permit shall remain in full force and effect."

            This provision means that if part of the permit is disputed by any person, the rest of
            the permit shall remain valid. This provision should not be confused with the
            provision in Regulation 1, also called severability, that states that in the case of a
            dispute about some part of the regulations, the rest of the regulations shall remain
            valid.




                                                   3-20

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


      4.11 Standard Conditions to Implement EPA Title V Regulations and 40 CFR 70

            "The permit holder shall comply with all conditions of this permit. The permit
            consists of this document and all appendices. Any non-compliance with the terms
            and conditions of this permit will constitute a violation of the law and will be grounds
            for enforcement action; permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or revision;
            or denial of a permit renewal application."

            "In the event any enforcement action is brought as a result of a violation of any term
            or condition of this permit, the fact that it would have been necessary for the
            permittee to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance
            with such term or condition shall not be a defense to such enforcement action."

            "This permit may be modified, revoked, reopened and reissued, or terminated for
            cause."

            "The filing of a request by the facility for a permit revision, revocation and
            reissuance, or termination, or the filing of a notification of planned changes or
            anticipated non-compliance does not stay the applicability of any permit condition."

            "This permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive
            privilege."

            "The permit holder shall supply any information that the District requests in writing
            to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or
            terminating the permit or to determine compliance with the permit within 30 days."

            "Any records required to be maintained pursuant to this permit which the permittee
            considers to contain proprietary or trade secret information shall be prominently
            designated as such. Copies of any such proprietary or trade secret information
            which are provided to the District shall be maintained by the District in a locked
            confidential file, provided, however, that requests from the public for the review of
            any such information shall be handled in accordance with the District's procedures
            set forth in Section 11 of the District’s Administrative Code."

            “The responsible official shall certify all documents submitted by the facility pursuant
            to the major facility review permit. The certification shall state that based on
            information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and
            information in the document are true, accurate, and complete. The certifications
            shall be signed by a responsible official for the facility.”

            "The emissions inventory submitted with the application for a Major Facility Review
            Permit is an estimate of actual emissions or the potential to emit for the time period
            stated and is included only as one means of determining applicable requirements


                                                   3-21

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                       Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            for emission sources. It does not establish, or constitute a basis for establishing,
            any new emission limitations."

      4.12 Requirement to Pay Fees

            "The permit holder shall pay annual fees in accordance with District Regulation 3,
            including Schedule P."

      4.13 Provisions Regarding the Federal Enforceability of Conditions

            The programs that are contained in the Clean Air Act are considered to be federally
            enforceable. These programs include, but are not limited to, Federal New Source
            Review, New Source Performance Standards, any rule approved into the State
            Implementation Plan, Acid Rain Requirements, National Emissions Standards for
            Hazardous Air Pollutants, Title VI requirements regarding to Ozone-Depleting
            Compounds, and Section 112 requirements regarding to hazardous air pollutants.
            EPA is able to take enforcement action with respect to any violation of the Clean Air
            Act programs. This is known as federal enforceability.

            All requirements or permit conditions in a permit, even those that are not written to
            conform to these federal programs and that are not designated as federally
            enforceable, will become federally enforceable if EPA accepts the permit as written
            during their permit review period.       Any change to a federally enforceable
            requirement or condition requires formal EPA review. The main advantages in
            designating some requirements or conditions as non-federally enforceable is that
            changes to these conditions are not subject to EPA review and that EPA may not
            request additional monitoring to ensure compliance with the requirement or permit
            condition. Conditions that are not federally enforceable will be marked with an
            asterisk. Requirements that are not federally enforceable shall be designated as
            such in the permit tables. The permit condition section will contain the following
            language:

            "Any condition that is preceded by an asterisk is not federally enforceable."

      4.14 Inspection and Entry Requirements

            "Access to Facility: The permit holder shall provide reasonable access to the facility
            and equipment which is subject to this permit to the APCO and/or to his or her
            designee."

      4.15 Requirements for Compliance Certification

            "Compliance certifications shall be submitted annually by the responsible official of
            this facility to the Bay Area Air Quality Management District and to the



                                                  3-22

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            Environmental Protection Agency. The certification period shall start on [date] of
            every year and shall end on [12 months after initial date] of every year. The
            compliance certification shall be due [one month after the end of certification
            period]. The certification must list each applicable requirement, the compliance
            status, whether compliance was continuous or intermittent, the method used to
            determine compliance, and any other specific information required by the permit.
            The certification shall contain a statement that it is true, accurate, and complete,
            after reasonable inquiry, and be signed by a responsible official. The permit holder
            may satisfy this requirement through submittal of District-generated Compliance
            Certification forms.     The certification should be directed to the District’s
            Compliance and Enforcement Division at the address above, and a copy of the
            certification shall be sent to the Environmental Protection Agency at the following
            address:
                                       Director of the Air Division
                                       USEPA, Region IX
                                       75 Hawthorne Street
                                       San Francisco, CA 94105
                                       Attention: Air-3

      4.16 Permit Shield

            A facility may include a proposal for a permit shield in its application for a major
            facility review permit. The permit shield identifies statutory and/or regulatory
            provisions that do not apply to a source or group of sources. Once the shield is in
            place, enforcement actions and litigation may not be initiated against the source(s)
            covered by the shield that would be based on those identified regulatory and
            statutory provisions. The permit shield is an optional, not required, element of the
            major facility review permit. The following condition will be included in the permit
            shield section of the permit:

            “Pursuant to District Regulations 2-6-233 and 2-6-409.12, the federally enforceable
            regulations and/or standards cited in the following table[s] do not apply to the
            source or group of sources identified at the top of the table[s]. Enforcement actions
            and litigation may not be initiated against the source or group of sources covered by
            this shield based on the regulatory and/or statutory provisions cited, as long as the
            reasons listed below remain valid for the source or group of sources covered by this
            shield.” [The permitting engineer will prepare tables specifying sources and
            provisions covered by the shield(s)]

            The permit may also include a second type of permit shield. Where there are multiple
            overlapping requirements for control of the same pollutant together with multiple
            monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, the facility may request that
            the permit subsume the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting that is associated
            with the less stringent limits. The facility must demonstrate that the monitoring, etc. for


                                                   3-23

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                    May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                       Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            the most stringent limits will assure compliance with the less stringent limits. If the
            facility cannot make the demonstration, the facility or the District may propose
            monitoring, etc. that assures compliance with all limits and subsume the monitoring
            prescribed in the standards.

            To implement the second type of permit shield, the following condition will be included
            in the permit shield section of the permit:

            “Pursuant to District Regulations 2-6-233.2 and 2-6-409.12, as of the date this permit
            is issued, the federally enforceable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting
            requirements cited in the following table for the source or group of sources identified at
            the top of the table[s] are subsumed by the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting
            for more stringent requirements or by a “hybrid” monitoring scheme. The District has
            determined that compliance with the requirements listed below and elsewhere in this
            permit will assure compliance with the substantive requirements of the subsumed
            monitoring requirements. Enforcement actions and litigation may not be initiated
            against the source or group of sources covered by this shield based on the subsumed
            monitoring requirements cited.”

5.    TRADE SECRETS AND AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION

      The Clean Air Act and the Title V regulations require that the content of permit
      applications, compliance plans, emissions or compliance monitoring reports, and
      compliance certifications be made available to the public, subject to certain restrictions.
      Information about emissions and the contents of permits is not restricted. These
      documents shall be available for review at the District office.

      The procedures concerning public inspection of District records and the protection of
      confidential information are described in detail in Section 11 of the Bay Area Air Quality
      Management District Administrative Code.

6.    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & EPA REVIEW

      One of the purposes of Title V is to allow the public and EPA additional opportunity to
      review the emissions and permits. Before a permit can be issued, both the public and
      EPA must be notified.




                                                   3-24

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                   May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                       Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


      6.1   Major Facility Review Permits

            6.1.1 Public Notice

                   The District must publish a public notice in a major newspaper at least thirty
                   days before the District intends to issue a permit. The notice must identify the
                   facility by name and address and must include information about the
                   operation that will receive a permit, any proposed change in emissions, a
                   District source for further information, and a brief description of the
                   procedures to be followed by interested members of the public who wish to
                   participate in the public comment period or wish to request a hearing.

                   Generally, the notice inviting public comment will specify that interested
                   parties should submit their comments on any terms and conditions of the
                   proposed permit, in writing, by a given date, to a named District staff member.

                   The APCO may decide to hold a public hearing to receive oral comments in
                   advance of taking action on the proposed permit. If a public hearing is
                   deemed necessary, any persons who have submitted written comments or
                   have requested notification will be given advance notice of the date and time
                   of the public hearing. The date and time of the public hearing will also be the
                   subject of a public notice published in a major newspaper in the area where
                   the facility to be permitted is located. The hearing shall be scheduled at least
                   30 days after the notice is published.

                   The procedures to be followed at any such public hearing will be informal, and
                   the hearing will be moderated by the APCO or a delegated representative.
                   The moderator of the hearing may limit the amount of time allocated to each
                   member of the public who wishes to speak and may specify other reasonable
                   procedures which assure that the hearing is conducted in an orderly and
                   expeditious manner (such as to limiting comments to those related to the air
                   quality impacts of the facility permit). The moderator will prepare a brief
                   written summary of each comment received at the public hearing; this
                   summary will become part of the official District record on the proposed
                   permit.

                   No decision regarding the issuance of the permit, or regarding any of the
                   proposed terms and conditions of the permit will be made at the public
                   hearing. The District will respond in writing to all written comments received
                   in the 30-day public comment period and to all oral comments made at the
                   public hearing. The District's written response may be in the form of a single
                   document addressing all specific concerns raised during the public comment
                   period and/or at the public hearing.




                                                   3-25

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                   May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                         Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                   Any decision or action pertaining to the issuance or denial of a Title V permit
                   by the District in accordance with District Regulation 2, Rule 6, may be
                   appealed to the District's Hearing Board under Health and Safety Code
                   Section 42302.1.

                   The District will issue the permit at the end of the EPA review period and the
                   public comment period, if EPA has no objections.

                   If EPA does not object to the permit, any person may petition EPA to
                   reconsider the matter within 60 days after the conclusion of the EPA review
                   period. Information about the opening and closing of the EPA review period is
                   available on the EPA web site (www.epa.gov/region9). The petition must be
                   based on objections raised in the public comment period, or in any public
                   hearing, unless the grounds for the objection arose after the close of the
                   original comment period or the petitioner demonstrates that it was
                   impracticable to do so.

            6.1.2 EPA Review

                   The District shall send the proposed permit to EPA for review at the same
                   time that the public notice is published or after the public comment period, at
                   the APCO’s discretion. If the proposed permit has been submitted to EPA,
                   and substantial changes are made due to public comments, the APCO shall
                   withdraw the permit from EPA review, and resubmit a revised proposed permit
                   to EPA, restarting the 45-day review period.

                   EPA has 45 days to review the permit terms and conditions and accept or
                   object to them in writing. If the EPA does not respond within 45 days, the
                   District may issue the permit.

                   If the EPA objects to the proposed permit within 45 days, the District may not
                   issue the permit as proposed. The District shall submit revisions to EPA that
                   address EPA's objections within 90 days of receipt of EPA's objection and
                   issue the permit.

                   As stated above, any person may petition EPA to reconsider the matter within
                   60 days after EPA's review period, based on objections raised in the public
                   comment period or hearing. If EPA objects to the permit based on any such
                   petition, the District is obliged to reopen the permit. If EPA and the District do
                   not reach an agreement concerning the permit, EPA may modify, terminate,
                   or revoke and reissue the permit.




                                                    3-26

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                       Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            6.1.3 Availability of Information

                   The District is obliged to make information about the permit available to the
                   public. In particular, the contents of the permit and information about
                   emissions are not confidential.        The contents of permit applications,
                   compliance plans, monitoring and compliance certification reports are also
                   available to the public, subject to the restrictions of Section 422 of Rule 2-6.
                   These restrictions are described in the Trade Secret section, Volume II of the
                   Manual of Procedures, Part 2.

      6.2   Synthetic Minor Operating Permits

            The District shall send a copy of each final permit for a synthetic minor facility to
            EPA for publication after issuance.

      6.3   Appeals and Objections

            Appeals to a District decision to issue a major facility review permit may be made
            by an applicant or a member of the public.

            6.3.1 Applicant

                   The District will publish a public notice prior to issuing a permit. If an
                   applicant is dissatisfied with the terms and conditions of the proposed permit,
                   the applicant may comment and/or request a hearing during the 30-day
                   comment period after public notice. If the District agrees to hold a hearing,
                   the applicant will be able to present his or her case during the public hearing.
                   If the permit is not revised in response to comments or a hearing, the
                   applicant may petition EPA on the grounds raised in his or her comments
                   and/or public hearing.

                   If the District denies the permit, the applicant may appeal to the District's
                   Hearing Board in accordance with Section 42302.1 of the Health and Safety
                   Code. The appeal must be received by the Hearing Board within 30 days
                   after the receipt of the notice of the denial.

            6.3.2 Public

                   Any member of the public may review the proposed permit and the facility's
                   proposed emissions or change in emissions at the District office when the
                   District publishes a public notice announcing that a permit will be issued to a
                   facility.




                                                   3-27

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                   May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                      Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


                   Likewise, any member of the public may submit a comment on a proposed
                   permit, may request a hearing, and may testify at a hearing that is held to
                   discuss a permit.

                   Any person may petition EPA to reconsider any matter raised in the public
                   comment period and in any public hearing within 60 days after the conclusion
                   of the EPA 45-day review period.

                   Any person may appeal any decision or action pertaining to the issuance of a
                   Title V permit to the District's Hearing Board in accordance with Section
                   42302.1 of the Health and Safety Code. The appeal must be received by the
                   Hearing Board within 30 days after issuance of the permit. Information about
                   issuance of the permit is available on the District’s web site
                   (www.baaqmd.gov/permit/t5/NOTIFICA.HTM).

7.    DISTRICT PERMITTING PROCEDURES

      7.1   Major Facility Review Permits

            The District will determine whether any major facility review application is complete
            within 60 days of receipt of the application. Applications are date-stamped with the
            date of receipt. If the District does not inform the applicant within 60 days that the
            application is incomplete, the application will be deemed complete as of the date of
            receipt.

            The District may consider the application to be “administratively” complete, if the
            District has sufficient information to begin writing the permit. The minimum
            elements necessary to consider an application “administratively” complete” are
            submission of the fees and the following forms:
                        Stationary Source Summary
                        Total Stationary Source Emissions
                        Certification Statement

            The applicant is obligated to submit further information that the District requests in
            writing within the date specified on the request, even if the application is
            “administratively” complete. If an applicant does not respond to requests for
            information, the application will be declared incomplete, the applicant will lose the
            application shield, and the applicant will be subject to enforcement action for
            operating without a Title V permit.

            The District will determine whether any minor revision application is complete within
            30 days of receipt of the application. If the District does not inform the applicant
            within 30 days that the application is incomplete, the application will be deemed
            complete as of the date of receipt.


                                                  3-28

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                  May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                      Major Facility Review Permit Requirements




            After the receipt of a complete application from a facility, the District will write a
            permit. When the proposed permit is complete, the District will issue a public notice
            informing the public that a permit has been written and that the 30-day public
            comment period has begun. The District will also send a copy of the proposed
            permit to the applicant.

            A public hearing on the proposed permit may be scheduled at the discretion of the
            APCO.

            The District will submit the proposed permit to the EPA for review either
            concurrently with the publication of the public notice or after the 30 days public
            comment period has ended.

            If a hearing is held, the District will submit the proposed permit to the EPA for
            review after the hearing. If a hearing is scheduled after the permit has been
            submitted to EPA, the District shall withdraw the permit and resubmit it after the
            public hearing.

            The EPA has 45 days to review and accept or object to the proposed permit. The
            District may issue the permit at any time after the 45-day period has elapsed if the
            EPA has not objected to the permit. If EPA does object, the District shall make
            appropriate revisions and issue the permit. If the District does not make the
            revisions and issue the permit, EPA may issue, revise, or deny the permit.

            Within 60 days after the 45-day EPA review period has ended, any member of the
            public may petition EPA to reconsider the matter. The request must be based on
            comments given during the public comment period or during any public hearing
            unless the petitioner demonstrates that it was impracticable to raise such objections
            within such time period, or unless the grounds for such objection arose after such
            period. If the EPA objects to the permit due to a public petition, the permit may be
            reopened by the EPA and modified or revoked. (EPA publishes the beginning and
            end of the EPA review period on their website at www.epa.gov/region9).

            The District will take final action on initial permits (except as specified below),
            significant permit revisions, and renewals within eighteen months after the
            application is complete. This period will include the public comment period and
            EPA review period. Final action means the issuance or denial of a permit.

            By July 1, 2001, the District will issue permits to all of the major facilities that
            submitted applications before July 25, 1996.

            Minor permit revision procedures



                                                  3-29

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                  May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            An applicant for a minor permit revision shall apply for the revision and an authority
            to construct or permit to operate in accordance with Regulation 2, Rule 1,
            concurrently.

            If the applicant applies for an authority to construct, the minor permit revision will be
            sent to EPA for a 45-day review period when the authority to construct is issued.
            The applicant is permitted to act on the authority to construct immediately. The
            District shall issue the minor permit revision to the major facility review permit within
            15 days after the end of the EPA review period. The revision to the permit shall
            apply when the facility builds or installs the source.

            If the applicant applies for a permit to operate, such as when the equipment is
            existing and only permit conditions are changed, the minor permit revision will be
            sent to EPA for a 45-day review period when the District permit to operate is issued.
            The applicant is allowed to make the change in operation as soon as the permit to
            operate is issued. The District shall issue the minor permit revision to the major
            facility review permit within 15 days after the end of the EPA review period.

            The District will take final action on minor permit revisions within ninety days after
            the application is complete or 15 days after the end of EPA's 45-day review period,
            whichever is later. In this case, final action means the issuance or denial of a permit
            revision. There will be no public comment period for minor revisions.

      7.2   Synthetic Minor Operating Permits

            The District will determine whether any application for an initial synthetic minor
            operating permit or for a synthetic minor operating permit revision is complete
            within 30 days of receipt of the application. If the District does not inform the
            applicant within 30 days that the application is incomplete, the application will be
            deemed complete as of the date of receipt. The APCO and the applicant may
            agree on a longer time period to determine completeness.

            The applicant is obligated to submit further information within 30 days of a written
            request, even if the application is complete.

            After the receipt of a complete application from a facility, the District will write a
            permit. When the proposed permit is complete, the District will issue the permit and
            send a copy of the permit to the EPA.

            The District will take final action on synthetic minor operating permits within 180
            days after the application is complete. Final action means the issuance or denial of
            a permit.




                                                   3-30

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                           Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


8.    TITLE IV: APPLICABILITY

      Title IV is an EPA program designed to reduce acid rain. Acid rain is produced when
      SO2, SO3, and NOx are emitted into the air. These pollutants combine with the moisture
      in air and become nitric acid and sulfuric acid. The acids are removed from the air by
      rainfall and are deposited on land and water. The name for these deposits is "acid rain."
      Acid rain has been implicated in the deterioration of lakes and forests.

      Much of the SO2, SO3, and NOx that is emitted into the air comes from the generation of
      electricity. Large power plants burn coal, oil, and gas to drive gas turbines and to
      produce steam to drive steam turbines. Coal and oil are fossil fuels and contain varying
      amounts of sulfur that becomes SO2 and SO3 when burned. Natural gas is also a fossil
      fuel. However, most natural gas contains very little sulfur.

      NOx is formed when air, containing nitrogen and oxygen, is brought to high temperatures
      in combustion and other processes. NOx is formed during the burning of natural gas as
      well as coal and oil.

      EPA is implementing Title IV through the permit program established in Title V. Facilities
      that are subject to Title IV must apply for major facility review permits, are subject to
      monitoring requirements by November 1994, and must submit the acid rain portion of
      their applications by January 1, 1996. These facilities will also be required to hold one
      SO2 "allowance" for every ton of SO2 that the facility emits. An allowance is an
      authorization from the EPA to emit one ton of SO2.

      The federal acid rain rules are contained in the Code of Federal Regulations Parts 40
      CFR 72 through 40 CFR 78. This portion of the permit handbook will summarize the
      definitions that determine applicability.

      The acid rain program has been divided in two parts: Phase I and Phase II. Large coal-
      burning utilities were included in Phase I. EPA named these facilities in Section 404 of
      the Clean Air Act. There are no Phase I facilities in California. The rest of the facilities
      that will be subject to the acid rain program are part of Phase II.

      The terms below are used in the following discussion.

            A "unit" is a fossil-fueled combustion device.

            An "affected unit" is a unit that is subject to Title IV.

            A "utility" is any person who sells electricity.

            A "generator" is a device that produces electricity.




                                                      3-31

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                       May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


      Equipment that does not burn fossil fuels is exempt from Title IV.

      Existing utility units (commencing operation before November 15, 1990) are subject to
      Title IV unless they serve a generator with a capacity not greater than 25 MW.

      Units that serve generators that do not sell electricity are exempt.

      Some cogeneration units, independent power plants, qualifying facilities, solid waste
      incinerators, simple combustion turbines, and new facilities are exempt.

      A cogeneration unit is a unit where the combustion provides energy to supply steam or
      heat for other purposes in addition to producing electricity. Cogeneration units may be
      subject to the acid rain program when they sell more than one-third of the electricity they
      produce and more than 219,000 MW-hrs per year. If the facility keeps more than two-
      thirds of the electricity it produces, it would not be subject to the acid rain program
      regardless of size.

      If a cogeneration facility does sell more than one-third of the electricity and sells more
      than 219,000 MW-hrs per year produced by a unit, it may still be exempt from the acid
      rain program. To be exempt, a facility would have to be a qualifying facility or an
      independent power facility and must meet two other requirements.

      The "qualifying facility" term is defined in 18 CFR 292. Two types of plants may be
      qualifying facilities: cogeneration plants that meet certain efficiency requirements and
      alternative energy plants. The last are called "small power production facilities."
      Qualifying facilities have to meet ownership criteria. No more than 50 percent of the
      facility's equity interest can be held by electrical utilities.

      There are two types of cogeneration facilities. Facilities that produce electricity first and
      use the reject heat afterward for a second purpose are "topping-cycle facilities." Facilities
      that use the reject heat to make electricity are "bottoming-cycle facilities." These facilities
      must comply with the following applicable efficiency standards to qualify for the
      exemption:

            Topping-cycle facilities: If the facility burns oil or natural gas and the installation
            began after March 12, 1980, the useful power output plus one-half of the useful
            thermal energy output must be no less than 42.5 percent of the total energy output.
            However, if the useful thermal energy output is less than 15 percent of the total
            energy output of the facility, the useful power output plus one-half of the useful
            thermal energy output must be no less than 45 percent of the total energy output.
            Other topping-cycle facilities have no efficiency standards.

            Bottoming-cycle facilities: If the facility burns oil or natural gas and the installation
            began after March 12, 1980, the useful power output of the facility must be no less


                                                    3-32

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                       Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


            than 45 percent of the total energy input for supplementary firing. In this case,
            supplementary firing means energy input used only in the electric generating
            process. Other bottoming-cycle facilities have no efficiency standards.

      Cogeneration facilities must be certified by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to
      be considered qualifying facilities.

      The second type of facility that can be considered as "qualifying" is the "small power
      production facility." These types of facilities use alternative energy sources for their main
      energy input. The allowable sources of energy are: biomass, waste, renewable
      resources, geothermal resources, solar energy, wind energy, or any combination of the
      above. Fossil fuels may not supply more than 25 percent of the energy input to the
      facility, and the power output of the facility cannot be greater than 80 MW.

      Small power production facilities must be certified by the Federal Energy Regulatory
      Commission to be considered qualifying facilities.

      An "independent power production facility" is one that is nonrecourse project-financed as
      defined in 10 CFR 715, sells at least 80 percent of its output at wholesale, is required to
      hold SO2 allowances, and is not majority owned by public utilities. "Nonrecourse project-
      financed" is an ownership/financing test to ensure that the facility is independent.

      Qualifying and independent power production facilities are exempt if, as of November 15,
      1990, they possessed qualifying power purchase commitments to sell at least 15 percent
      of the total planned net output capacity and if the net power output capacity is not greater
      than 130 percent of the planned (design) net output capacity. These conditions ensure
      that small facilities that are not able to obtain allowances due to their contractual
      commitments will not suffer undue hardship.

      Solid waste incinerators that produce electricity will be exempt if fossil fuels provide no
      more than 20 percent of the energy input to the facility.

      Simple combustion turbines that began operation before November 15, 1990, are exempt.

      New units that serve one or more generators with a total capacity of 25 MW or less and
      that burn fuels with a sulfur content of 0.05 percent or less by weight are exempt. A
      written petition for this exemption must be submitted to the District. The exemption will
      have a term of five years unless the unit fails to comply with the conditions of the
      exemption. Other new units will not be exempt even if they serve one or more generators
      with a total capacity of 25 MW or less.

      Facilities that are not exempt will have to comply with the emission limitations of Section
      405 of the Clean Air Act and will have to obtain allowances for their SO2 emissions.



                                                   3-33

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                   May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                      Major Facility Review Permit Requirements




                                            GLOSSARY


Act
The federal Clean Air Act, its 1990 amendments, and implementing regulations.

CAA
The federal Clean Air Act

CFR
The Code of Federal Regulations. 40 CFR contains the implementing regulations for federal
environmental statutes such as the Clean Air Act. Parts 50-99 of 40 CFR contain the
requirements for air pollution programs.

EPA
The federal Environmental Protection Agency.

Existing Major Facility
Facility that was major on July 24, 1995.

Federally Enforceable
All limitations and conditions which are enforceable by the Administrator of the EPA including
those requirements developed pursuant to 40 CFR Part 51, subpart I (NSR), Part 52.21 (PSD),
Part 60, (NSPS), Part 61, (NESHAPS), Part 63 (MACT), and Part 72 (Permits Regulation, Acid
Rain), and also including limitations and conditions contained in operating permits issued under
an EPA-approved program that has been incorporated into the SIP.

HAP
Hazardous Air Pollutant. Any pollutant listed pursuant to Section 112(b) of the Act.

Major Facility, MFR
A facility with potential emissions of regulated air pollutants greater than 100 tons per year,
greater than 10 tons per year of any single hazardous air pollutant, and/or greater than 25 tons
per year of any combination of hazardous air pollutants, or such lesser quantity as determined
by the EPA administrator.

MACT
Maximum Available Control Technology. Control technologies for HAPs based on source
categories. Mandated by Title I, Section 112 of the Act, and implemented by 40 CFR Part 63.

MFR
Major Facility Review. The District's term for the federal operating permit program mandated by
Title V of the Act and implemented by District Regulation 2, Rule 6.




                                                  3-34

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                  May 2, 2001
Manual of Procedures, Volume II, Part 3                        Major Facility Review Permit Requirements


MOP
The District's Manual of Procedures.

NESHAPS
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants. Contained in 40 CFR Part 61.


NSPS
Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources. Federal standards for emissions from
new stationary sources. Mandated by Title I, Section 111 of the Act, and implemented by both
40 CFR Part 60 and District Regulation 10.

NSR
New Source Review. A federal program for preconstruction review and permitting of new and
modified sources of air pollutants. Mandated by Title I of the Clean Air Act and implemented by
40 CFR Parts 51 and 52, the California Clean Air Act, as well as District Regulation 2, Rule 2.

Phase II Acid Rain Facility
A facility that generates electricity for sale through fossil-fuel combustion and by virtue of
certain other characteristics (defined in Regulation 2, Rule 6) is subject to Titles IV and V of the
Clean Air Act.

Potential to Emit
The maximum capacity of a facility to emit a pollutant under its physical and operational design.
Any physical or operational limitation on the capacity of the facility to emit a pollutant, including
pollution control equipment and restrictions on hours of operation or on the type or amount of
material combusted, stored or processed shall be treated as a part of its design only if the
limitation is enforceable.

PSD
Prevention of Significant Deterioration. A federal program for permitting new and modified
sources of air pollutants for which the District is classified "attainment" of the National Air
Ambient Quality Standards. Mandated by Title I of the Act and implemented by both 40 CFR
Part 52 and District Regulation 2, Rule 2.

SIP
State Implementation Plan. State and District programs and regulations approved by EPA and
developed in order to attain the National Air Ambient Quality Standards. Mandated by Title I of
the Act.

Synthetic Minor Facility
A facility which obtains federally enforceable conditions on its permit to operate that limit its
potential to emit to below the thresholds for a major facility.

Title V
Title V of the federal Clean Air Act. Requires a federally enforceable operating permit program
for major and certain other facilities.




                                                    3-35

Bay Area Air Quality Management District                                                     May 2, 2001
