FILE: Candidate A\Principal VP Evaluation Form (BCT).docx

PARAGRAPHS
P001: principal vice president-candidate evaluation
P003: all officer selection criteria
P004: all officer selection criteria
P005: all officer selection criteria
P006: all officer selection criteria
P007: principal vice president – specific selection criteria
P008: principal vice president – specific selection criteria
P009: principal vice president – specific selection criteria
P010: principal vice president – specific selection criteria

TABLES
TABLE 1 rows=13 cols=5
  R01C01: Background Summary
  R01C02: Beau joined Barr in 2010 after earning his BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Minnesota Duluth. He began in air permitting and compliance projects with a strong fieldwork component, including routine QA/QC of continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) and benzene waste-stream sampling at the petroleum refinery in Superior, WI, that is now owned by Superior Refining Company (SRC, subsidiary of Cenovus Energy), and conducting regulatory compliance inspections of aboveground storage tanks and engines at various Enbridge crude oil terminals. He also supported air compliance reporting and emission calculation tasks for taconite mine operations, including Minorca Mine (now owned by Cleveland-Cliffs). Beau later provided long-term, on-site support for several clients, including air compliance reporting for Monroe Energy following its 2012 restart of an idled petroleum refinery near Philadelphia and managing the CEMS compliance program for Flint Hills Resources’ (FHR) Corpus Christi refineries between 2013 and 2015. Beginning in 2013, Beau transitioned to a task and project management role for SRC, Minorca Mine, FHR, and Monroe Energy, and expanded into larger air permitting efforts, including Title V renewals and air permit modification applications for refineries, midstream crude oil storage terminals, taconite mines, chemical plants, power plants, and other industrial facilities. His work has also included regional haze analyses, compliance audits, and development of regulatory compliance programs. Beau led development of the Barr Tank Emission Calculation Spreadsheet (BTECS), which consolidated features from more than ten previously used storage tank calculation spreadsheets into a single tool that supports Barr’s projects and is available to download from barr.com to market Barr’s services. As he moved into project leadership roles, Beau focused on building teams and developing staff to support his projects. The Monroe Energy team expanded to include many other Barr staff, namely Dane Jensen, Al Reich, and Mark Mielke, who now all operate primarily autonomously and build their own teams under Beau’s leadership as PM. Beau also built teams to support his projects with SRC, the largest of which is the monthly waste sampling project, including the monthly waste sampling and “total annual benzene” (TAB) calculations. In 2020, Beau transitioned day-to-day sampling coordination to Katie Kaylor, who then served as task manager for the sampling. After requesting a proposal for this support in 2026, SRC transitioned the Benzene Waste Operations NESHAP (BWON) sampling tasks to another contractor, claiming cost as the primary driver. However, SRC wanted Barr to continue providing technical and regulatory support for the refinery’s BWON program. Katie, Ryan Owens, and Robert Licari now support the TAB calculations for SRC, with Beau providing guidance and QA/QC. Beau currently serves as a senior project manager, technical expert, and trusted advisor to many of Barr’s key clients across multiple industries. While his core focus has historically been air permitting and compliance, his roles on the Cerilon Gas-To-Liquids (GTL) ND (Cerilon) and North American Iron (NAI, subsidiary of Scranton Holding Company) projects expanded his experience into environmental review, siting permitting, water permitting, waste permitting, and many other facets of industrial permitting. Beau also supports Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) projects, primarily with oil and gas companies, conducts compliance audits, develops regulatory compliance programs for clients, and delivers internal and external training and presentations on technical topics to help build Barr’s technical brand and market our services. Through his breadth of experience, Beau has developed strong relationships across Barr offices, practice groups, business units, and business support groups. In the past year, he has collaborated with staff across all EM practice groups and all Barr offices with EM staff. This institutional knowledge and network contributed to Beau’s selection as the EM Business Unit Technology Coordinator (BUTC) in 2021, where he represents EM in technology-related planning and decisions by IS. Beau also coaches and mentors staff from entry- to mid-level formally and informally. Colleagues routinely seek his guidance on complex compliance and permitting tasks, storage tank emission quantification, technical problem-solving (e.g., complex Microsoft Excel calculations), and broader professional challenges.
  R01C03: Beau joined Barr in 2010 after earning his BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Minnesota Duluth. He began in air permitting and compliance projects with a strong fieldwork component, including routine QA/QC of continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) and benzene waste-stream sampling at the petroleum refinery in Superior, WI, that is now owned by Superior Refining Company (SRC, subsidiary of Cenovus Energy), and conducting regulatory compliance inspections of aboveground storage tanks and engines at various Enbridge crude oil terminals. He also supported air compliance reporting and emission calculation tasks for taconite mine operations, including Minorca Mine (now owned by Cleveland-Cliffs). Beau later provided long-term, on-site support for several clients, including air compliance reporting for Monroe Energy following its 2012 restart of an idled petroleum refinery near Philadelphia and managing the CEMS compliance program for Flint Hills Resources’ (FHR) Corpus Christi refineries between 2013 and 2015. Beginning in 2013, Beau transitioned to a task and project management role for SRC, Minorca Mine, FHR, and Monroe Energy, and expanded into larger air permitting efforts, including Title V renewals and air permit modification applications for refineries, midstream crude oil storage terminals, taconite mines, chemical plants, power plants, and other industrial facilities. His work has also included regional haze analyses, compliance audits, and development of regulatory compliance programs. Beau led development of the Barr Tank Emission Calculation Spreadsheet (BTECS), which consolidated features from more than ten previously used storage tank calculation spreadsheets into a single tool that supports Barr’s projects and is available to download from barr.com to market Barr’s services. As he moved into project leadership roles, Beau focused on building teams and developing staff to support his projects. The Monroe Energy team expanded to include many other Barr staff, namely Dane Jensen, Al Reich, and Mark Mielke, who now all operate primarily autonomously and build their own teams under Beau’s leadership as PM. Beau also built teams to support his projects with SRC, the largest of which is the monthly waste sampling project, including the monthly waste sampling and “total annual benzene” (TAB) calculations. In 2020, Beau transitioned day-to-day sampling coordination to Katie Kaylor, who then served as task manager for the sampling. After requesting a proposal for this support in 2026, SRC transitioned the Benzene Waste Operations NESHAP (BWON) sampling tasks to another contractor, claiming cost as the primary driver. However, SRC wanted Barr to continue providing technical and regulatory support for the refinery’s BWON program. Katie, Ryan Owens, and Robert Licari now support the TAB calculations for SRC, with Beau providing guidance and QA/QC. Beau currently serves as a senior project manager, technical expert, and trusted advisor to many of Barr’s key clients across multiple industries. While his core focus has historically been air permitting and compliance, his roles on the Cerilon Gas-To-Liquids (GTL) ND (Cerilon) and North American Iron (NAI, subsidiary of Scranton Holding Company) projects expanded his experience into environmental review, siting permitting, water permitting, waste permitting, and many other facets of industrial permitting. Beau also supports Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) projects, primarily with oil and gas companies, conducts compliance audits, develops regulatory compliance programs for clients, and delivers internal and external training and presentations on technical topics to help build Barr’s technical brand and market our services. Through his breadth of experience, Beau has developed strong relationships across Barr offices, practice groups, business units, and business support groups. In the past year, he has collaborated with staff across all EM practice groups and all Barr offices with EM staff. This institutional knowledge and network contributed to Beau’s selection as the EM Business Unit Technology Coordinator (BUTC) in 2021, where he represents EM in technology-related planning and decisions by IS. Beau also coaches and mentors staff from entry- to mid-level formally and informally. Colleagues routinely seek his guidance on complex compliance and permitting tasks, storage tank emission quantification, technical problem-solving (e.g., complex Microsoft Excel calculations), and broader professional challenges.
  R01C04: Beau joined Barr in 2010 after earning his BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Minnesota Duluth. He began in air permitting and compliance projects with a strong fieldwork component, including routine QA/QC of continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) and benzene waste-stream sampling at the petroleum refinery in Superior, WI, that is now owned by Superior Refining Company (SRC, subsidiary of Cenovus Energy), and conducting regulatory compliance inspections of aboveground storage tanks and engines at various Enbridge crude oil terminals. He also supported air compliance reporting and emission calculation tasks for taconite mine operations, including Minorca Mine (now owned by Cleveland-Cliffs). Beau later provided long-term, on-site support for several clients, including air compliance reporting for Monroe Energy following its 2012 restart of an idled petroleum refinery near Philadelphia and managing the CEMS compliance program for Flint Hills Resources’ (FHR) Corpus Christi refineries between 2013 and 2015. Beginning in 2013, Beau transitioned to a task and project management role for SRC, Minorca Mine, FHR, and Monroe Energy, and expanded into larger air permitting efforts, including Title V renewals and air permit modification applications for refineries, midstream crude oil storage terminals, taconite mines, chemical plants, power plants, and other industrial facilities. His work has also included regional haze analyses, compliance audits, and development of regulatory compliance programs. Beau led development of the Barr Tank Emission Calculation Spreadsheet (BTECS), which consolidated features from more than ten previously used storage tank calculation spreadsheets into a single tool that supports Barr’s projects and is available to download from barr.com to market Barr’s services. As he moved into project leadership roles, Beau focused on building teams and developing staff to support his projects. The Monroe Energy team expanded to include many other Barr staff, namely Dane Jensen, Al Reich, and Mark Mielke, who now all operate primarily autonomously and build their own teams under Beau’s leadership as PM. Beau also built teams to support his projects with SRC, the largest of which is the monthly waste sampling project, including the monthly waste sampling and “total annual benzene” (TAB) calculations. In 2020, Beau transitioned day-to-day sampling coordination to Katie Kaylor, who then served as task manager for the sampling. After requesting a proposal for this support in 2026, SRC transitioned the Benzene Waste Operations NESHAP (BWON) sampling tasks to another contractor, claiming cost as the primary driver. However, SRC wanted Barr to continue providing technical and regulatory support for the refinery’s BWON program. Katie, Ryan Owens, and Robert Licari now support the TAB calculations for SRC, with Beau providing guidance and QA/QC. Beau currently serves as a senior project manager, technical expert, and trusted advisor to many of Barr’s key clients across multiple industries. While his core focus has historically been air permitting and compliance, his roles on the Cerilon Gas-To-Liquids (GTL) ND (Cerilon) and North American Iron (NAI, subsidiary of Scranton Holding Company) projects expanded his experience into environmental review, siting permitting, water permitting, waste permitting, and many other facets of industrial permitting. Beau also supports Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) projects, primarily with oil and gas companies, conducts compliance audits, develops regulatory compliance programs for clients, and delivers internal and external training and presentations on technical topics to help build Barr’s technical brand and market our services. Through his breadth of experience, Beau has developed strong relationships across Barr offices, practice groups, business units, and business support groups. In the past year, he has collaborated with staff across all EM practice groups and all Barr offices with EM staff. This institutional knowledge and network contributed to Beau’s selection as the EM Business Unit Technology Coordinator (BUTC) in 2021, where he represents EM in technology-related planning and decisions by IS. Beau also coaches and mentors staff from entry- to mid-level formally and informally. Colleagues routinely seek his guidance on complex compliance and permitting tasks, storage tank emission quantification, technical problem-solving (e.g., complex Microsoft Excel calculations), and broader professional challenges.
  R01C05: Beau joined Barr in 2010 after earning his BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of Minnesota Duluth. He began in air permitting and compliance projects with a strong fieldwork component, including routine QA/QC of continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) and benzene waste-stream sampling at the petroleum refinery in Superior, WI, that is now owned by Superior Refining Company (SRC, subsidiary of Cenovus Energy), and conducting regulatory compliance inspections of aboveground storage tanks and engines at various Enbridge crude oil terminals. He also supported air compliance reporting and emission calculation tasks for taconite mine operations, including Minorca Mine (now owned by Cleveland-Cliffs). Beau later provided long-term, on-site support for several clients, including air compliance reporting for Monroe Energy following its 2012 restart of an idled petroleum refinery near Philadelphia and managing the CEMS compliance program for Flint Hills Resources’ (FHR) Corpus Christi refineries between 2013 and 2015. Beginning in 2013, Beau transitioned to a task and project management role for SRC, Minorca Mine, FHR, and Monroe Energy, and expanded into larger air permitting efforts, including Title V renewals and air permit modification applications for refineries, midstream crude oil storage terminals, taconite mines, chemical plants, power plants, and other industrial facilities. His work has also included regional haze analyses, compliance audits, and development of regulatory compliance programs. Beau led development of the Barr Tank Emission Calculation Spreadsheet (BTECS), which consolidated features from more than ten previously used storage tank calculation spreadsheets into a single tool that supports Barr’s projects and is available to download from barr.com to market Barr’s services. As he moved into project leadership roles, Beau focused on building teams and developing staff to support his projects. The Monroe Energy team expanded to include many other Barr staff, namely Dane Jensen, Al Reich, and Mark Mielke, who now all operate primarily autonomously and build their own teams under Beau’s leadership as PM. Beau also built teams to support his projects with SRC, the largest of which is the monthly waste sampling project, including the monthly waste sampling and “total annual benzene” (TAB) calculations. In 2020, Beau transitioned day-to-day sampling coordination to Katie Kaylor, who then served as task manager for the sampling. After requesting a proposal for this support in 2026, SRC transitioned the Benzene Waste Operations NESHAP (BWON) sampling tasks to another contractor, claiming cost as the primary driver. However, SRC wanted Barr to continue providing technical and regulatory support for the refinery’s BWON program. Katie, Ryan Owens, and Robert Licari now support the TAB calculations for SRC, with Beau providing guidance and QA/QC. Beau currently serves as a senior project manager, technical expert, and trusted advisor to many of Barr’s key clients across multiple industries. While his core focus has historically been air permitting and compliance, his roles on the Cerilon Gas-To-Liquids (GTL) ND (Cerilon) and North American Iron (NAI, subsidiary of Scranton Holding Company) projects expanded his experience into environmental review, siting permitting, water permitting, waste permitting, and many other facets of industrial permitting. Beau also supports Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) projects, primarily with oil and gas companies, conducts compliance audits, develops regulatory compliance programs for clients, and delivers internal and external training and presentations on technical topics to help build Barr’s technical brand and market our services. Through his breadth of experience, Beau has developed strong relationships across Barr offices, practice groups, business units, and business support groups. In the past year, he has collaborated with staff across all EM practice groups and all Barr offices with EM staff. This institutional knowledge and network contributed to Beau’s selection as the EM Business Unit Technology Coordinator (BUTC) in 2021, where he represents EM in technology-related planning and decisions by IS. Beau also coaches and mentors staff from entry- to mid-level formally and informally. Colleagues routinely seek his guidance on complex compliance and permitting tasks, storage tank emission quantification, technical problem-solving (e.g., complex Microsoft Excel calculations), and broader professional challenges.
  R02C01: Education & Work Experience
  R02C02: Education
  R02C03: Education
  R02C04: Education
  R02C05: Education
  R03C01: Education & Work Experience
  R03C03: Degree
  R03C04: School
  R04C01: Education & Work Experience
  R04C03: BS Chemical Engineering
  R04C04: University of Minnesota Duluth
  R05C01: Education & Work Experience
  R06C01: Education & Work Experience
  R06C02: Work Experience
  R06C03: Work Experience
  R06C04: Work Experience
  R06C05: Work Experience
  R07C01: Education & Work Experience
  R07C03: Year
  R07C04: Employer
  R08C01: Education & Work Experience
  R08C03: June 2010 – Current
  R08C04: Barr Engineering Co.
  R09C01: Education & Work Experience
  R10C01: Project Management Experience
  R10C02: LFAR Notes: Cerilon GTL: Although Beau was not the PM of record, he was the lead for all permitting-related tasks, such as the siting permits, air permit, and water discharge permits, as well as other tasks at the request of the PM. LFAR for this project over the past 3 years, of which the permitting tasks were a large fraction, was: 2023 = $498,731 2024 = $343,979
  R10C03: LFAR Notes: Cerilon GTL: Although Beau was not the PM of record, he was the lead for all permitting-related tasks, such as the siting permits, air permit, and water discharge permits, as well as other tasks at the request of the PM. LFAR for this project over the past 3 years, of which the permitting tasks were a large fraction, was: 2023 = $498,731 2024 = $343,979
  R10C04: LFAR Notes: Cerilon GTL: Although Beau was not the PM of record, he was the lead for all permitting-related tasks, such as the siting permits, air permit, and water discharge permits, as well as other tasks at the request of the PM. LFAR for this project over the past 3 years, of which the permitting tasks were a large fraction, was: 2023 = $498,731 2024 = $343,979
  R10C05: LFAR Notes: Cerilon GTL: Although Beau was not the PM of record, he was the lead for all permitting-related tasks, such as the siting permits, air permit, and water discharge permits, as well as other tasks at the request of the PM. LFAR for this project over the past 3 years, of which the permitting tasks were a large fraction, was: 2023 = $498,731 2024 = $343,979
  R11C01: Professional Registrations
  R11C02: N/A
  R11C03: N/A
  R11C04: N/A
  R11C05: N/A
  R12C01: Recent/ Current Leadership Roles at Barr
  R12C02: EM BUTC (2021–present), including supporting the 2025 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Initiative, which rolled into Barr’s 2026 Significant Strategic Investment (SSI) on the same topic. Coach – Omar Elsayed, Evan Kay, and Amalia Scipioni currently, Amanda Salzman until her departure in 2024, and Jerusha Rawlings until her departure in 2025. Developing and presenting training for internal Barr offerings: 2026: Consulting 101, others TBD 2025: Consulting 101, supported ‘Data and Confused’ offering at EM Training Week 2024: Consulting 101, Air Regulations for Wastewater 2023: Excel 101 In the rotation for EM interview teams across Barr offices and roles for 10+ years. On the 2025 interview team for the new Director of Project Technology Role (interview team included Nick Nelson, Paula Jackson, and Aaron Grosser). Target Client Lead for Monroe Energy and South Bow
  R12C03: EM BUTC (2021–present), including supporting the 2025 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Initiative, which rolled into Barr’s 2026 Significant Strategic Investment (SSI) on the same topic. Coach – Omar Elsayed, Evan Kay, and Amalia Scipioni currently, Amanda Salzman until her departure in 2024, and Jerusha Rawlings until her departure in 2025. Developing and presenting training for internal Barr offerings: 2026: Consulting 101, others TBD 2025: Consulting 101, supported ‘Data and Confused’ offering at EM Training Week 2024: Consulting 101, Air Regulations for Wastewater 2023: Excel 101 In the rotation for EM interview teams across Barr offices and roles for 10+ years. On the 2025 interview team for the new Director of Project Technology Role (interview team included Nick Nelson, Paula Jackson, and Aaron Grosser). Target Client Lead for Monroe Energy and South Bow
  R12C04: EM BUTC (2021–present), including supporting the 2025 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Initiative, which rolled into Barr’s 2026 Significant Strategic Investment (SSI) on the same topic. Coach – Omar Elsayed, Evan Kay, and Amalia Scipioni currently, Amanda Salzman until her departure in 2024, and Jerusha Rawlings until her departure in 2025. Developing and presenting training for internal Barr offerings: 2026: Consulting 101, others TBD 2025: Consulting 101, supported ‘Data and Confused’ offering at EM Training Week 2024: Consulting 101, Air Regulations for Wastewater 2023: Excel 101 In the rotation for EM interview teams across Barr offices and roles for 10+ years. On the 2025 interview team for the new Director of Project Technology Role (interview team included Nick Nelson, Paula Jackson, and Aaron Grosser). Target Client Lead for Monroe Energy and South Bow
  R12C05: EM BUTC (2021–present), including supporting the 2025 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Initiative, which rolled into Barr’s 2026 Significant Strategic Investment (SSI) on the same topic. Coach – Omar Elsayed, Evan Kay, and Amalia Scipioni currently, Amanda Salzman until her departure in 2024, and Jerusha Rawlings until her departure in 2025. Developing and presenting training for internal Barr offerings: 2026: Consulting 101, others TBD 2025: Consulting 101, supported ‘Data and Confused’ offering at EM Training Week 2024: Consulting 101, Air Regulations for Wastewater 2023: Excel 101 In the rotation for EM interview teams across Barr offices and roles for 10+ years. On the 2025 interview team for the new Director of Project Technology Role (interview team included Nick Nelson, Paula Jackson, and Aaron Grosser). Target Client Lead for Monroe Energy and South Bow
  R13C01: Development Efforts
  R13C02: Improve comfort and effectiveness with Crucial Conversations: Attended Crucial Conversations training in April-May 2025. Participated in DiSC assessment training during EM Training Week in October 2025 to better understand interpersonal engagement styles. Tracking crucial conversations in a separate document in the SharePoint folder. Increase visibility and approachability as a leader in the Duluth Office: Routine office interactions via hallway walks and conversations in the breakroom. Scheduling and encouraging engagement outside of the office between Barr staff (e.g., mountain biking trips, public events he plans to attend). Attending and engaging with colleagues in EM PG meetings inside and outside of his expertise. Develop additional knowledge and experience in risk management and contracting. Attended PMRG risk management training classes available in 2024 and 2025: “Evaluation of Clients and Projects” on December 12, 2024. “Standard of Care and Uninsurability” on May 29, 2025. “The Ground Rules of Risk Management and Standard of Care” on September 30, 2025 “Legal Liability” on December 2, 2025 Supported Ryan Siats as PIC regarding various contracting efforts for the NAI project: Prepared the initial draft of Barr Work Order with Scranton Holding Company for the NAI project. Supported contracting with subcontractors to support surveying for Dakota Skipper (endangered species) and cultural resources with Meadowlark and Metcalf, respectively. This work included reviewing proposals from subcontractors, aligning contract terms with Barr’s standard terms, and coordinating client non-disclosure agreements with subcontractors. Led efforts with Tony Shoberg to fill the gap in Barr’s contract with South Bow: Beau identified that Barr’s MSA with TC Energy (from which South Bow was spun off), which was set to expire partway through 2025, did not include negotiated rates for 2025. Coordinated with Charlene McGue regarding her contracting efforts with TC Energy. After initial efforts to get a new MSA were rebuffed by South Bow, Tony and Beau indicated that any future work would need to be under Barr’s standard terms and conditions without a contract. Negotiated a one-year extension of Barr’s existing contract that incorporates Barr’s standard rate table. Engaged with Erik Boleman regarding the extension of Barr’s contract with Cenovus: Reviewed and provided feedback on Barr rates drafted initially by Erik. Supported contract development efforts through engagement in meetings scheduled by Erik and directly working with Erik as he worked through negotiations. Conducted a lessons learned call with Erik after the contract was amended.
  R13C03: Improve comfort and effectiveness with Crucial Conversations: Attended Crucial Conversations training in April-May 2025. Participated in DiSC assessment training during EM Training Week in October 2025 to better understand interpersonal engagement styles. Tracking crucial conversations in a separate document in the SharePoint folder. Increase visibility and approachability as a leader in the Duluth Office: Routine office interactions via hallway walks and conversations in the breakroom. Scheduling and encouraging engagement outside of the office between Barr staff (e.g., mountain biking trips, public events he plans to attend). Attending and engaging with colleagues in EM PG meetings inside and outside of his expertise. Develop additional knowledge and experience in risk management and contracting. Attended PMRG risk management training classes available in 2024 and 2025: “Evaluation of Clients and Projects” on December 12, 2024. “Standard of Care and Uninsurability” on May 29, 2025. “The Ground Rules of Risk Management and Standard of Care” on September 30, 2025 “Legal Liability” on December 2, 2025 Supported Ryan Siats as PIC regarding various contracting efforts for the NAI project: Prepared the initial draft of Barr Work Order with Scranton Holding Company for the NAI project. Supported contracting with subcontractors to support surveying for Dakota Skipper (endangered species) and cultural resources with Meadowlark and Metcalf, respectively. This work included reviewing proposals from subcontractors, aligning contract terms with Barr’s standard terms, and coordinating client non-disclosure agreements with subcontractors. Led efforts with Tony Shoberg to fill the gap in Barr’s contract with South Bow: Beau identified that Barr’s MSA with TC Energy (from which South Bow was spun off), which was set to expire partway through 2025, did not include negotiated rates for 2025. Coordinated with Charlene McGue regarding her contracting efforts with TC Energy. After initial efforts to get a new MSA were rebuffed by South Bow, Tony and Beau indicated that any future work would need to be under Barr’s standard terms and conditions without a contract. Negotiated a one-year extension of Barr’s existing contract that incorporates Barr’s standard rate table. Engaged with Erik Boleman regarding the extension of Barr’s contract with Cenovus: Reviewed and provided feedback on Barr rates drafted initially by Erik. Supported contract development efforts through engagement in meetings scheduled by Erik and directly working with Erik as he worked through negotiations. Conducted a lessons learned call with Erik after the contract was amended.
  R13C04: Improve comfort and effectiveness with Crucial Conversations: Attended Crucial Conversations training in April-May 2025. Participated in DiSC assessment training during EM Training Week in October 2025 to better understand interpersonal engagement styles. Tracking crucial conversations in a separate document in the SharePoint folder. Increase visibility and approachability as a leader in the Duluth Office: Routine office interactions via hallway walks and conversations in the breakroom. Scheduling and encouraging engagement outside of the office between Barr staff (e.g., mountain biking trips, public events he plans to attend). Attending and engaging with colleagues in EM PG meetings inside and outside of his expertise. Develop additional knowledge and experience in risk management and contracting. Attended PMRG risk management training classes available in 2024 and 2025: “Evaluation of Clients and Projects” on December 12, 2024. “Standard of Care and Uninsurability” on May 29, 2025. “The Ground Rules of Risk Management and Standard of Care” on September 30, 2025 “Legal Liability” on December 2, 2025 Supported Ryan Siats as PIC regarding various contracting efforts for the NAI project: Prepared the initial draft of Barr Work Order with Scranton Holding Company for the NAI project. Supported contracting with subcontractors to support surveying for Dakota Skipper (endangered species) and cultural resources with Meadowlark and Metcalf, respectively. This work included reviewing proposals from subcontractors, aligning contract terms with Barr’s standard terms, and coordinating client non-disclosure agreements with subcontractors. Led efforts with Tony Shoberg to fill the gap in Barr’s contract with South Bow: Beau identified that Barr’s MSA with TC Energy (from which South Bow was spun off), which was set to expire partway through 2025, did not include negotiated rates for 2025. Coordinated with Charlene McGue regarding her contracting efforts with TC Energy. After initial efforts to get a new MSA were rebuffed by South Bow, Tony and Beau indicated that any future work would need to be under Barr’s standard terms and conditions without a contract. Negotiated a one-year extension of Barr’s existing contract that incorporates Barr’s standard rate table. Engaged with Erik Boleman regarding the extension of Barr’s contract with Cenovus: Reviewed and provided feedback on Barr rates drafted initially by Erik. Supported contract development efforts through engagement in meetings scheduled by Erik and directly working with Erik as he worked through negotiations. Conducted a lessons learned call with Erik after the contract was amended.
  R13C05: Improve comfort and effectiveness with Crucial Conversations: Attended Crucial Conversations training in April-May 2025. Participated in DiSC assessment training during EM Training Week in October 2025 to better understand interpersonal engagement styles. Tracking crucial conversations in a separate document in the SharePoint folder. Increase visibility and approachability as a leader in the Duluth Office: Routine office interactions via hallway walks and conversations in the breakroom. Scheduling and encouraging engagement outside of the office between Barr staff (e.g., mountain biking trips, public events he plans to attend). Attending and engaging with colleagues in EM PG meetings inside and outside of his expertise. Develop additional knowledge and experience in risk management and contracting. Attended PMRG risk management training classes available in 2024 and 2025: “Evaluation of Clients and Projects” on December 12, 2024. “Standard of Care and Uninsurability” on May 29, 2025. “The Ground Rules of Risk Management and Standard of Care” on September 30, 2025 “Legal Liability” on December 2, 2025 Supported Ryan Siats as PIC regarding various contracting efforts for the NAI project: Prepared the initial draft of Barr Work Order with Scranton Holding Company for the NAI project. Supported contracting with subcontractors to support surveying for Dakota Skipper (endangered species) and cultural resources with Meadowlark and Metcalf, respectively. This work included reviewing proposals from subcontractors, aligning contract terms with Barr’s standard terms, and coordinating client non-disclosure agreements with subcontractors. Led efforts with Tony Shoberg to fill the gap in Barr’s contract with South Bow: Beau identified that Barr’s MSA with TC Energy (from which South Bow was spun off), which was set to expire partway through 2025, did not include negotiated rates for 2025. Coordinated with Charlene McGue regarding her contracting efforts with TC Energy. After initial efforts to get a new MSA were rebuffed by South Bow, Tony and Beau indicated that any future work would need to be under Barr’s standard terms and conditions without a contract. Negotiated a one-year extension of Barr’s existing contract that incorporates Barr’s standard rate table. Engaged with Erik Boleman regarding the extension of Barr’s contract with Cenovus: Reviewed and provided feedback on Barr rates drafted initially by Erik. Supported contract development efforts through engagement in meetings scheduled by Erik and directly working with Erik as he worked through negotiations. Conducted a lessons learned call with Erik after the contract was amended.

TABLE 2 rows=10 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #A1
  R01C02: Embraces Barr’s values, culture, strategies, and consulting and business models and contributes to constructive change
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Demonstrates behaviors consistent with our core and foundational values (exceptional client service, acting as owners, collaborative consulting)
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Operates consistent with our strategic plan, policies, and other published understandings that represent our shared expectations
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Demonstrates loyalty to colleagues and the company
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Treats all colleagues respectfully
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Is trustworthy and appropriately extends trust to others
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R07C02: Demonstrates understanding of the business of professional consulting and our business model
  R07C03: A B C F
  R08C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R08C02: Contributes to our collective reputation in all interactions with stakeholders
  R08C03: A B C F
  R09C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R09C02: Is a good steward of the shared financial resources and works to provide value in every activity
  R09C03: A B C F
  R10C01: Supporting Examples
  R10C02: Beau fully embraces Barr’s values, culture, strategies, and consulting and business models. In mid‑2024, EM’s Staffing Coordinator asked Beau to step in and lead the redevelopment of Consulting 101, a training identified as a company need but stalled in development. Beau collaborated with Barr’s Training and Development staff and the EM Staffing Team to rebuild the content and deliver the training at EM Training Week in October 2024. He continued working with Training and Development and select BU staff to refine the materials for a broader rollout in 2025; the training was delivered three times in 2025, with Beau presenting twice. This work directly reinforces shared expectations for how Barr staff operate as consultants and strengthens the pipeline of consistent “Barr-way” consulting behaviors. Beau committed to presenting the training again in 2026 on a quarterly basis. Beau advances Barr’s collective reputation through high‑stakes, external-facing work where quality and professionalism matter. On the Cerilon project (a large, complex greenfield development), Beau served as technical lead and task manager for the project’s environmental permitting portfolio (siting permits, air permit to construct, water discharge permits, and other permits). His role required coordinating and leading 40 staff across various tasks, business units, and disciplines while maintaining high standards for work product quality and responsiveness. This reputation for competence and professionalism was evident in November 2023 when Cerilon selected Beau to speak during the project’s public open house, and again in late 2024 as key permits were issued with explicit positive feedback from multiple voices within the client organization on the quality and clarity of Barr’s submittals. Internally, Beau’s day‑to‑day behaviors reinforce trust, respect, and loyalty. Feedback from colleagues consistently describes Beau as open, candid, responsive, and dependable; he provides constructive feedback, explains unfamiliar technical topics without judgment, stays calm as scope changes, and takes time to help colleagues even when it is not “his project” or “his client.” This pattern of behavior creates confidence in his leadership and reinforces a collaborative consulting culture. Beau also demonstrates an “owner mindset” and stewardship of shared resources through his extended management role as EM BUTC. In that role, he has led improvements to the new project technology request process on BarrLink, promoted cost recovery for project technology (including specialized software), helped evaluate and support staff in using new AI tools, and strengthened cost/benefit evaluation practices. Finally, Beau has been growing his understanding of Barr’s business model of professional consulting through contracting and rate-related work in 2025. He has supported client and subcontract contracting efforts (including drafting and aligning work orders and subcontract terms), helped identify and close a contract/rate gap for South Bow/TC Energy by coordinating internally and supporting a contract extension that incorporated Barr’s standard rate table, and supported Erik Boleman with rate table negotiations with SRC.
  R10C03: Beau fully embraces Barr’s values, culture, strategies, and consulting and business models. In mid‑2024, EM’s Staffing Coordinator asked Beau to step in and lead the redevelopment of Consulting 101, a training identified as a company need but stalled in development. Beau collaborated with Barr’s Training and Development staff and the EM Staffing Team to rebuild the content and deliver the training at EM Training Week in October 2024. He continued working with Training and Development and select BU staff to refine the materials for a broader rollout in 2025; the training was delivered three times in 2025, with Beau presenting twice. This work directly reinforces shared expectations for how Barr staff operate as consultants and strengthens the pipeline of consistent “Barr-way” consulting behaviors. Beau committed to presenting the training again in 2026 on a quarterly basis. Beau advances Barr’s collective reputation through high‑stakes, external-facing work where quality and professionalism matter. On the Cerilon project (a large, complex greenfield development), Beau served as technical lead and task manager for the project’s environmental permitting portfolio (siting permits, air permit to construct, water discharge permits, and other permits). His role required coordinating and leading 40 staff across various tasks, business units, and disciplines while maintaining high standards for work product quality and responsiveness. This reputation for competence and professionalism was evident in November 2023 when Cerilon selected Beau to speak during the project’s public open house, and again in late 2024 as key permits were issued with explicit positive feedback from multiple voices within the client organization on the quality and clarity of Barr’s submittals. Internally, Beau’s day‑to‑day behaviors reinforce trust, respect, and loyalty. Feedback from colleagues consistently describes Beau as open, candid, responsive, and dependable; he provides constructive feedback, explains unfamiliar technical topics without judgment, stays calm as scope changes, and takes time to help colleagues even when it is not “his project” or “his client.” This pattern of behavior creates confidence in his leadership and reinforces a collaborative consulting culture. Beau also demonstrates an “owner mindset” and stewardship of shared resources through his extended management role as EM BUTC. In that role, he has led improvements to the new project technology request process on BarrLink, promoted cost recovery for project technology (including specialized software), helped evaluate and support staff in using new AI tools, and strengthened cost/benefit evaluation practices. Finally, Beau has been growing his understanding of Barr’s business model of professional consulting through contracting and rate-related work in 2025. He has supported client and subcontract contracting efforts (including drafting and aligning work orders and subcontract terms), helped identify and close a contract/rate gap for South Bow/TC Energy by coordinating internally and supporting a contract extension that incorporated Barr’s standard rate table, and supported Erik Boleman with rate table negotiations with SRC.

TABLE 3 rows=7 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #A2
  R01C02: Exercises good judgment and courage
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Thoughtful and sound decision making using good judgment
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Is accountable and ensures accountability in others
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Diplomatically confronts and resolves difficult situations and supports others who do the same
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Applies appropriate financial stewardship, risk-taking, and management
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Champions ideas or positions despite dissent or political risk
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Supporting Examples
  R07C02: Beau demonstrates accountability and sound judgment, including when things do not go well, which provides opportunities to strengthen trust with clients and colleagues. In 2021, a regulator identified errors in Monroe Energy’s emissions inventory tied to storage tank emissions calculations prepared by Beau. Beau took ownership of the issue, communicated the cause and impact, corrected the work, and worked with Barr and Monroe to significantly improve documentation and QA/QC processes. Monroe later noted in CARE interviews that Barr’s enhanced documentation and QA/QC increased their confidence in Barr’s work products. The strengthened approach also supported a successful EPA Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) inspection in late 2024, with notable positive feedback on the quality and detail of the underlying work from the client and the EPA inspector. Beau also shows diplomacy and courage in difficult stakeholder situations. During the Cerilon air permitting effort, Beau led a call with Cerilon and their engineering contractor (Worley) to confirm key information to be represented in the application (e.g., emission unit specifications and control equipment). The call became tense as the engineering team raised concerns and perceived errors in the information prepared by Barr. Beau managed the discussion without deflecting blame or arguing, listened carefully, and committed to revisions and a follow-up call. After identifying true errors, resolving miscommunications, and identifying misunderstandings from Worley, Beau drafted a factual, diplomatic response for PIC (Joel Trinkle) review before sending them to the client and Worley. This response led to a much more constructive second call where final agreement on the permit representations was achieved. Beau also champions ideas and positions despite dissent or political risk. During an audit of a chemical manufacturing plant, Beau identified that the facility’s heat-exchange system leak monitoring was insufficient to meet MON Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) requirements because the system design did not meet key regulatory definitions and monitoring location requirements. The finding created tension among site staff, corporate environmental support, and Barr. Beau documented the basis clearly and provided supporting references, after which the client agreed to the interpretation. He then collaborated with the client to identify and implement a streamlined compliance approach under the new interpretation, demonstrating both courage and practical problem-solving. Finally, Beau applies appropriate financial stewardship, risk-taking, and management. His projects consistently have minimal variances (<1%) and unbilled WIP. This is attributable to regularly tracking progress and budgets to identify future concerns before they occur. For example, in January 2025, SRC issued a PO that included only 60 percent of the budget Beau had requested for his BWON sampling project. Beau worked with his sampling team to confirm how many rounds of waste sampling could be completed within the allotted budget and potential ways to reduce the project scope without jeopardizing compliance with the regulatory standards or the data quality. Beau presented this information to SRC, who appreciated Beau’s forward-thinking on the project and ideas for potential cost savings.
  R07C03: Beau demonstrates accountability and sound judgment, including when things do not go well, which provides opportunities to strengthen trust with clients and colleagues. In 2021, a regulator identified errors in Monroe Energy’s emissions inventory tied to storage tank emissions calculations prepared by Beau. Beau took ownership of the issue, communicated the cause and impact, corrected the work, and worked with Barr and Monroe to significantly improve documentation and QA/QC processes. Monroe later noted in CARE interviews that Barr’s enhanced documentation and QA/QC increased their confidence in Barr’s work products. The strengthened approach also supported a successful EPA Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) inspection in late 2024, with notable positive feedback on the quality and detail of the underlying work from the client and the EPA inspector. Beau also shows diplomacy and courage in difficult stakeholder situations. During the Cerilon air permitting effort, Beau led a call with Cerilon and their engineering contractor (Worley) to confirm key information to be represented in the application (e.g., emission unit specifications and control equipment). The call became tense as the engineering team raised concerns and perceived errors in the information prepared by Barr. Beau managed the discussion without deflecting blame or arguing, listened carefully, and committed to revisions and a follow-up call. After identifying true errors, resolving miscommunications, and identifying misunderstandings from Worley, Beau drafted a factual, diplomatic response for PIC (Joel Trinkle) review before sending them to the client and Worley. This response led to a much more constructive second call where final agreement on the permit representations was achieved. Beau also champions ideas and positions despite dissent or political risk. During an audit of a chemical manufacturing plant, Beau identified that the facility’s heat-exchange system leak monitoring was insufficient to meet MON Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) requirements because the system design did not meet key regulatory definitions and monitoring location requirements. The finding created tension among site staff, corporate environmental support, and Barr. Beau documented the basis clearly and provided supporting references, after which the client agreed to the interpretation. He then collaborated with the client to identify and implement a streamlined compliance approach under the new interpretation, demonstrating both courage and practical problem-solving. Finally, Beau applies appropriate financial stewardship, risk-taking, and management. His projects consistently have minimal variances (<1%) and unbilled WIP. This is attributable to regularly tracking progress and budgets to identify future concerns before they occur. For example, in January 2025, SRC issued a PO that included only 60 percent of the budget Beau had requested for his BWON sampling project. Beau worked with his sampling team to confirm how many rounds of waste sampling could be completed within the allotted budget and potential ways to reduce the project scope without jeopardizing compliance with the regulatory standards or the data quality. Beau presented this information to SRC, who appreciated Beau’s forward-thinking on the project and ideas for potential cost savings.

TABLE 4 rows=7 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #A3
  R01C02: Provides strategic thinking and leadership in area of practice or responsibility
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Contributes skills and leadership to planning and executing company programs and initiatives
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Thinks strategically and garners internal support to confirm strategies and potential impacts
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Demonstrates appropriate technical approaches and quality control
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Demonstrates effective communication and presentation skills
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Appropriately applies subject matter expertise and experience
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Supporting Examples
  R07C02: Beau has served as EM’s BUTC since 2021. In that role, he has helped plan and execute major technology-related initiatives and change efforts, including supporting EM’s Practice Groups’ technology-related needs, communicating updates related to Barr-wide technology rollouts and updates to existing tools/systems, providing feedback on IS’s proposed technology prioritization approach, and leading improvements to Barr’s technology acquisition/request process. As a contributor to Barr’s AI Initiative, Beau helped lead a structured evaluation of AI across the company, near-term opportunities, adoption barriers, and business exposures. He co-developed interview questions, conducted structured interviews with all Practice Group Coordinators, and drafted a company-wide summary memo capturing key patterns, existing initiatives addressing gaps, and areas needing strategic alignment. He then authored a targeted follow-up memo for the AI Initiative Core Team that reframed the interview feedback into business implications. This memo attempted to quantify Barr’s risk exposure to AI, benchmarked that evaluation against publicly available sources, and evaluated other risks such as evolving pricing models, IP/contracting ambiguity, and changing incentives. His approach included soliciting input from other BUTCs and senior stakeholders to help ensure the analysis was accurate and actionable. The resulting memos prompted meaningful discussion among the Initiative Core Team and Management Team stakeholders, and the learnings have been incorporated into the action items in the 2026 AI SSI. Beau proposed, collaborated with EM staff and Training and Development staff to develop, and presented multiple trainings during EM Training Week in 2023, 2024, and 2025 (see “Recent/ Current Leadership Roles at Barr” for list). Beau also collaborated with Joel Trinkle to develop and present four days of technical training to HF Sinclair regarding NSPS compliance, MACT compliance, and storage tank air regulatory compliance in September 2024. This training was well received by the attendees. Beau subsequently provided another round of storage tank training to HF Sinclair’s Artesia Refinery in December 2024. Beau presented with Phil Fish in December 2025 to Marathon Petroleum on similar regulatory topics, and the feedback was very positive. Beau also presented on enhanced storage tank air regulation compliance at the 2025 American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) Environmental Conference. Beau’s work with the Cerilon and NAI projects has addressed a wide range of topics outside his primary area of expertise in air permitting and compliance. In doing so, Beau has worked diligently to bring in the appropriate subject matter experts to evaluate proposed technical approaches, answer specific questions from the project teams, and perform QA/QC of the final work products before submittal to clients and/or regulatory agencies. Where Beau was the relevant technical expert, he brought in colleagues to provide cold-eye reviews to identify potential gaps or other issues in the work products.
  R07C03: Beau has served as EM’s BUTC since 2021. In that role, he has helped plan and execute major technology-related initiatives and change efforts, including supporting EM’s Practice Groups’ technology-related needs, communicating updates related to Barr-wide technology rollouts and updates to existing tools/systems, providing feedback on IS’s proposed technology prioritization approach, and leading improvements to Barr’s technology acquisition/request process. As a contributor to Barr’s AI Initiative, Beau helped lead a structured evaluation of AI across the company, near-term opportunities, adoption barriers, and business exposures. He co-developed interview questions, conducted structured interviews with all Practice Group Coordinators, and drafted a company-wide summary memo capturing key patterns, existing initiatives addressing gaps, and areas needing strategic alignment. He then authored a targeted follow-up memo for the AI Initiative Core Team that reframed the interview feedback into business implications. This memo attempted to quantify Barr’s risk exposure to AI, benchmarked that evaluation against publicly available sources, and evaluated other risks such as evolving pricing models, IP/contracting ambiguity, and changing incentives. His approach included soliciting input from other BUTCs and senior stakeholders to help ensure the analysis was accurate and actionable. The resulting memos prompted meaningful discussion among the Initiative Core Team and Management Team stakeholders, and the learnings have been incorporated into the action items in the 2026 AI SSI. Beau proposed, collaborated with EM staff and Training and Development staff to develop, and presented multiple trainings during EM Training Week in 2023, 2024, and 2025 (see “Recent/ Current Leadership Roles at Barr” for list). Beau also collaborated with Joel Trinkle to develop and present four days of technical training to HF Sinclair regarding NSPS compliance, MACT compliance, and storage tank air regulatory compliance in September 2024. This training was well received by the attendees. Beau subsequently provided another round of storage tank training to HF Sinclair’s Artesia Refinery in December 2024. Beau presented with Phil Fish in December 2025 to Marathon Petroleum on similar regulatory topics, and the feedback was very positive. Beau also presented on enhanced storage tank air regulation compliance at the 2025 American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) Environmental Conference. Beau’s work with the Cerilon and NAI projects has addressed a wide range of topics outside his primary area of expertise in air permitting and compliance. In doing so, Beau has worked diligently to bring in the appropriate subject matter experts to evaluate proposed technical approaches, answer specific questions from the project teams, and perform QA/QC of the final work products before submittal to clients and/or regulatory agencies. Where Beau was the relevant technical expert, he brought in colleagues to provide cold-eye reviews to identify potential gaps or other issues in the work products.

TABLE 5 rows=5 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #A4
  R01C02: Helps develop talent and helps colleagues reach full potential
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Demonstrated ability to teach and mentor less experienced employees
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Effectively coaches employees, formally and/or informally
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Helps others align their career development goals with company objectives
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Supporting Examples
  R05C02: Beau consistently helps colleagues reach their potential through both formal coaching, deliberate on-the-job development, and informal mentoring. His longest and clearest coaching example is his work with Omar Elsayed (beginning in mid‑2021). As Omar’s responsibilities expanded quickly into client-facing project management and team leadership, Beau supported his development by helping him work through administrative hurdles, identify resources, and build teams to support his projects. Beau also helped Omar navigate changes in workload, client base, and working arrangement (including transitioning to a fully remote role and formalizing expectations), helping him reinforce both career development and sustained performance. In early 2025, Allison Pearson recommended Beau as a coach for Evan Kay, a cultural resources specialist, believing Beau’s strengths in networking and communication could help Evan expand his visibility and career connections within Barr. Although their technical disciplines differed, Beau approached the opportunity as a chance to provide broader professional guidance and perspective. During a work trip to Albuquerque, Beau met Evan in person to discuss his coaching philosophy, listen to Evan’s professional goals, and outline how he could help Evan strengthen his internal network and navigate challenges in the Albuquerque office. After formalizing their coaching relationship, their coaching meetings have focused on helping Evan build relationships across business units, develop communication strategies for navigating stressful team dynamics, and increase his confidence in engaging with peers and leadership. Beau regularly serves as an informal teacher, mentor, and trusted confidant by creating stretch opportunities and supporting staff through both technical challenges and professional stress. In 2023, he brought Sam Anthonijs onto the Cerilon air permitting team to support development of the project’s PSD Permit to Construct (PTC) application. Sam had extensive prior air permitting experience but had not worked on a PSD permit application previously. Beau coached her through the process, performed QA/QC of her work, and intentionally included her in technical client/contractor meetings, providing backup as needed to reinforce credibility and address questions. He has continued supporting Sam’s growth, including her expanded role as overall PTC lead on the NAI project. In July 2025, when Sam raised concerns about schedule delays on the NAI project driven by late client inputs, Beau helped her work through the situation, reinforced confidence in her performance, acknowledged where his own communication had been insufficient and contributed to her concerns, and implemented a weekly update cadence that restored traction and reduced stress. These changes have resulted in significantly improved communication and teamwork on the project work. As a final example, Beau’s BWON compliance project with SRC previously included significant fieldwork sampling waste streams for benzene content. Beau initially asked Katie Kaylor, a technician in ED and the safety lead for Barr’s Duluth office, to support the sampling. Over the years, Beau has worked closely with Katie on the project, delegating more tasks to her to manage. This started with managing the scheduling of the sampling, and expanded into directly engaging with the client, managing the data gathered, and preparing calculations. Beau also gave Katie her first opportunities to formally manage part of the project, including reviewing invoices and preparing cost estimates. Katie has expressed gratitude to Beau for these opportunities.
  R05C03: Beau consistently helps colleagues reach their potential through both formal coaching, deliberate on-the-job development, and informal mentoring. His longest and clearest coaching example is his work with Omar Elsayed (beginning in mid‑2021). As Omar’s responsibilities expanded quickly into client-facing project management and team leadership, Beau supported his development by helping him work through administrative hurdles, identify resources, and build teams to support his projects. Beau also helped Omar navigate changes in workload, client base, and working arrangement (including transitioning to a fully remote role and formalizing expectations), helping him reinforce both career development and sustained performance. In early 2025, Allison Pearson recommended Beau as a coach for Evan Kay, a cultural resources specialist, believing Beau’s strengths in networking and communication could help Evan expand his visibility and career connections within Barr. Although their technical disciplines differed, Beau approached the opportunity as a chance to provide broader professional guidance and perspective. During a work trip to Albuquerque, Beau met Evan in person to discuss his coaching philosophy, listen to Evan’s professional goals, and outline how he could help Evan strengthen his internal network and navigate challenges in the Albuquerque office. After formalizing their coaching relationship, their coaching meetings have focused on helping Evan build relationships across business units, develop communication strategies for navigating stressful team dynamics, and increase his confidence in engaging with peers and leadership. Beau regularly serves as an informal teacher, mentor, and trusted confidant by creating stretch opportunities and supporting staff through both technical challenges and professional stress. In 2023, he brought Sam Anthonijs onto the Cerilon air permitting team to support development of the project’s PSD Permit to Construct (PTC) application. Sam had extensive prior air permitting experience but had not worked on a PSD permit application previously. Beau coached her through the process, performed QA/QC of her work, and intentionally included her in technical client/contractor meetings, providing backup as needed to reinforce credibility and address questions. He has continued supporting Sam’s growth, including her expanded role as overall PTC lead on the NAI project. In July 2025, when Sam raised concerns about schedule delays on the NAI project driven by late client inputs, Beau helped her work through the situation, reinforced confidence in her performance, acknowledged where his own communication had been insufficient and contributed to her concerns, and implemented a weekly update cadence that restored traction and reduced stress. These changes have resulted in significantly improved communication and teamwork on the project work. As a final example, Beau’s BWON compliance project with SRC previously included significant fieldwork sampling waste streams for benzene content. Beau initially asked Katie Kaylor, a technician in ED and the safety lead for Barr’s Duluth office, to support the sampling. Over the years, Beau has worked closely with Katie on the project, delegating more tasks to her to manage. This started with managing the scheduling of the sampling, and expanded into directly engaging with the client, managing the data gathered, and preparing calculations. Beau also gave Katie her first opportunities to formally manage part of the project, including reviewing invoices and preparing cost estimates. Katie has expressed gratitude to Beau for these opportunities.

TABLE 6 rows=8 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #P1
  R01C02: Provides effective project leadership and application of best project management practices
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Appropriate technical approaches and quality control on projects
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Understanding of project risks and use of appropriate mitigation measures
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Effective change management
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Effective leadership of high-performing teams and positive staff experiences
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Safe projects free of preventable incidents
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R07C02: Positive financial performance
  R07C03: A B C F
  R08C01: Supporting Examples
  R08C02: Beau’s strongest and most complex project leadership experience is in leading two complex, high-stakes industrial permitting efforts that require disciplined coordination across disciplines, business units, and external stakeholders. The first was the Cerilon project, where Beau served as the technical lead and task manager for the environmental permitting portfolio, coordinating large multi-disciplinary teams under aggressive timelines and evolving information. Building on this experience, he was asked to serve as project manager for Barr’s permitting effort for the NAI project. For NAI, he helped assemble and coordinate teams to execute a wide range of tasks (site evaluation, early material balance for a federal grant application, air permitting with PSD review, water and waste strategy development, wetland delineation, threatened and endangered (T&E) species evaluations, cultural resource surveys, evaluation of tailings options, and maintaining momentum despite limited data and a shifting project scope and footprint. These experiences demonstrate the ability to lead large teams, manage uncertainty, and maintain high quality control under pressure. In 2024, the MPCA initiated its review of the Title V renewal application Barr prepared for Minorca Mine in 2015. The MPCA requested that the Minorca Mine, who forwarded the request to Barr, prepare a revised potential to emit (PTE) for the facility that incorporated several requested additions and revisions. Beau reviewed this request and developed a work plan to complete these within the identified timeline. This work plan included pushing back on some of the MPCA’s requests that would have significantly increased the scope of work necessary to complete the updates, submitting questions to Minorca Mine on potential approaches to some updates, and inquiring with Paul Taylor, who was supporting another taconite facility with PTE revisions requested by the MPCA to verify any differences in the approaches taken. Beau delegated the PTE updates to a colleague without prior taconite plant PTE experience (Sam Anthonijs). Through the work plan, routine check-ins with Sam, and QA/QC conducted, Barr was able to provide the updated PTE to Minorca within the requested timeline. In mid‑2025, Barr began sampling new BWON waste streams at SRC, including higher vapor pressure streams. Beau and Katie Kaylor worked with the field team to implement appropriate collection methods (e.g., pressure-rated vials) and confirm dangerous goods shipping requirements. Following a small, contained vial leak discovered during sample storage, Beau and Katie coordinated the immediate response and led procedural improvements to prevent recurrence. Updates included secondary containment for all samples (sealed, absorbent-lined paint cans), repacking within a fume hood by dangerous goods shippers to minimize exposure risk and adding explicit contingency steps to the sampling plan. These changes reduced handling risk and strengthened overall field safety protocols.
  R08C03: Beau’s strongest and most complex project leadership experience is in leading two complex, high-stakes industrial permitting efforts that require disciplined coordination across disciplines, business units, and external stakeholders. The first was the Cerilon project, where Beau served as the technical lead and task manager for the environmental permitting portfolio, coordinating large multi-disciplinary teams under aggressive timelines and evolving information. Building on this experience, he was asked to serve as project manager for Barr’s permitting effort for the NAI project. For NAI, he helped assemble and coordinate teams to execute a wide range of tasks (site evaluation, early material balance for a federal grant application, air permitting with PSD review, water and waste strategy development, wetland delineation, threatened and endangered (T&E) species evaluations, cultural resource surveys, evaluation of tailings options, and maintaining momentum despite limited data and a shifting project scope and footprint. These experiences demonstrate the ability to lead large teams, manage uncertainty, and maintain high quality control under pressure. In 2024, the MPCA initiated its review of the Title V renewal application Barr prepared for Minorca Mine in 2015. The MPCA requested that the Minorca Mine, who forwarded the request to Barr, prepare a revised potential to emit (PTE) for the facility that incorporated several requested additions and revisions. Beau reviewed this request and developed a work plan to complete these within the identified timeline. This work plan included pushing back on some of the MPCA’s requests that would have significantly increased the scope of work necessary to complete the updates, submitting questions to Minorca Mine on potential approaches to some updates, and inquiring with Paul Taylor, who was supporting another taconite facility with PTE revisions requested by the MPCA to verify any differences in the approaches taken. Beau delegated the PTE updates to a colleague without prior taconite plant PTE experience (Sam Anthonijs). Through the work plan, routine check-ins with Sam, and QA/QC conducted, Barr was able to provide the updated PTE to Minorca within the requested timeline. In mid‑2025, Barr began sampling new BWON waste streams at SRC, including higher vapor pressure streams. Beau and Katie Kaylor worked with the field team to implement appropriate collection methods (e.g., pressure-rated vials) and confirm dangerous goods shipping requirements. Following a small, contained vial leak discovered during sample storage, Beau and Katie coordinated the immediate response and led procedural improvements to prevent recurrence. Updates included secondary containment for all samples (sealed, absorbent-lined paint cans), repacking within a fume hood by dangerous goods shippers to minimize exposure risk and adding explicit contingency steps to the sampling plan. These changes reduced handling risk and strengthened overall field safety protocols.

TABLE 7 rows=8 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #P2
  R01C02: Develops and maintains strong client relationships
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Understanding and attention to client’s needs and satisfaction of client requirements
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Clients consistently reach out to them and view them as a trusted advisor
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Has shown a continuous increase in client relationships
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Client relationships lasting an extended period of time
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Client relationships that grow into multiple projects
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R07C02: Develops new clients
  R07C03: A B C F
  R08C01: Supporting Examples
  R08C02: Beau’s strongest client-relationship evidence is his ability to sustain trust and deliver value through long client histories, organizational change, and shifting business conditions. Beau has supported SRC since 2010 through multiple ownership changes, significant turnover in client staff, and major facility events (including the refinery rebuild following the 2018 fire). Despite these changes and SRC’s broader trend of reducing contractor/consultant support beginning in 2024, Beau has maintained strong working relationships with members of SRC’s environmental team and continued support into 2026. This durability reflects a trusted-advisor relationship based on consistent quality, responsiveness, and regulatory guidance. Beau also has a long-standing and expanding relationship with Monroe Energy (client since 2012). He built trust through on-site engagement early in the relationship and then transitioned the work into a scalable team model where key task managers now operate primarily autonomously, while Beau provides oversight, QA/QC, and strategic support. CARE interview feedback reflects strong satisfaction with Barr’s technical expertise and work products, and the relationship has continued despite geographic distance and the inevitable occasional service failures that were managed transparently and corrected through process improvement. Beau’s relationship with TC Energy (now South Bow) also demonstrates trusted-advisor characteristics and growth into multiple projects. Between 2018 and 2025, Beau supported emissions calculation and compliance tool development and upgrades, expanded into additional work such as ESG-related emissions estimates and modeling, and helped the client connect with other Barr resources for needs other than air compliance. Beau also supported a cross-service capabilities presentation to TC Energy staff (including remediation capabilities), demonstrating cross-selling behavior and helping broaden the client’s awareness of Barr’s full-service set. Beau began working with Cerilon in late 2022. Through this work, Beau developed a strong, trusted advisor relationship with Rochelle Harding. This is most evident by Rochelle asking Barr to support Cerilon’s open house in November 2023. This open house was a posterboard-style information session about the project where Cerilon representatives talked directly with the public. Beau and Joel Trinkle were asked to field questions pertaining to the project’s environmental impacts, regulatory requirements, and compliance obligations. Rochelle and the rest of the Cerilon team were pleased with the result (150+ attendees) and Barr’s support. Rochelle has also asked Beau to support her during public hearings regarding environmental permits for the project. Cerilon has plans to revamp their project in the near future, requiring re-permitting, and plans to continue using Barr to support this work. Beau has also demonstrated that he understands his clients’ needs and helps them address these issues, allowing him to continuously develop his relationships and expand our business. For example, in September 2025, Barr and NAI determined that the project’s definition and permitting efforts were sufficiently advanced to hold a meeting with the North Dakota Department of Environmental Quality (NDDEQ) to introduce the project and outline ongoing permitting work. Beau coordinated closely with NDDEQ’s David Stroh to finalize logistics, align expectations, and confirm participation from NDDEQ leadership, NAI, CEC (engineering contractor), and EERC (disposal well permitting support). In preparation, Beau led the cross-team effort to develop and refine presentation materials to help ensure accuracy and consistency across the project description, air permitting, water management, and waste topics. He also worked with Bismarck administrative support to have a conference room available for Barr for NAI, CEC, EERC, and Barr to conduct final preparations immediately before the meeting. Following an introduction by NAI’s CEO, Jim Bougalis, Beau facilitated the meeting, guiding the discussion while engaging CEC and EERC to address technical details. The session successfully aligned stakeholders, clarified regulatory expectations, and established a strong foundation for advancing the NAI project in accordance with state and federal requirements. Beau received positive feedback from NAI, CEC, EERC, and Ryan Siats (the project PIC) for his effective preparation, calm facilitation, and leadership throughout the process.
  R08C03: Beau’s strongest client-relationship evidence is his ability to sustain trust and deliver value through long client histories, organizational change, and shifting business conditions. Beau has supported SRC since 2010 through multiple ownership changes, significant turnover in client staff, and major facility events (including the refinery rebuild following the 2018 fire). Despite these changes and SRC’s broader trend of reducing contractor/consultant support beginning in 2024, Beau has maintained strong working relationships with members of SRC’s environmental team and continued support into 2026. This durability reflects a trusted-advisor relationship based on consistent quality, responsiveness, and regulatory guidance. Beau also has a long-standing and expanding relationship with Monroe Energy (client since 2012). He built trust through on-site engagement early in the relationship and then transitioned the work into a scalable team model where key task managers now operate primarily autonomously, while Beau provides oversight, QA/QC, and strategic support. CARE interview feedback reflects strong satisfaction with Barr’s technical expertise and work products, and the relationship has continued despite geographic distance and the inevitable occasional service failures that were managed transparently and corrected through process improvement. Beau’s relationship with TC Energy (now South Bow) also demonstrates trusted-advisor characteristics and growth into multiple projects. Between 2018 and 2025, Beau supported emissions calculation and compliance tool development and upgrades, expanded into additional work such as ESG-related emissions estimates and modeling, and helped the client connect with other Barr resources for needs other than air compliance. Beau also supported a cross-service capabilities presentation to TC Energy staff (including remediation capabilities), demonstrating cross-selling behavior and helping broaden the client’s awareness of Barr’s full-service set. Beau began working with Cerilon in late 2022. Through this work, Beau developed a strong, trusted advisor relationship with Rochelle Harding. This is most evident by Rochelle asking Barr to support Cerilon’s open house in November 2023. This open house was a posterboard-style information session about the project where Cerilon representatives talked directly with the public. Beau and Joel Trinkle were asked to field questions pertaining to the project’s environmental impacts, regulatory requirements, and compliance obligations. Rochelle and the rest of the Cerilon team were pleased with the result (150+ attendees) and Barr’s support. Rochelle has also asked Beau to support her during public hearings regarding environmental permits for the project. Cerilon has plans to revamp their project in the near future, requiring re-permitting, and plans to continue using Barr to support this work. Beau has also demonstrated that he understands his clients’ needs and helps them address these issues, allowing him to continuously develop his relationships and expand our business. For example, in September 2025, Barr and NAI determined that the project’s definition and permitting efforts were sufficiently advanced to hold a meeting with the North Dakota Department of Environmental Quality (NDDEQ) to introduce the project and outline ongoing permitting work. Beau coordinated closely with NDDEQ’s David Stroh to finalize logistics, align expectations, and confirm participation from NDDEQ leadership, NAI, CEC (engineering contractor), and EERC (disposal well permitting support). In preparation, Beau led the cross-team effort to develop and refine presentation materials to help ensure accuracy and consistency across the project description, air permitting, water management, and waste topics. He also worked with Bismarck administrative support to have a conference room available for Barr for NAI, CEC, EERC, and Barr to conduct final preparations immediately before the meeting. Following an introduction by NAI’s CEO, Jim Bougalis, Beau facilitated the meeting, guiding the discussion while engaging CEC and EERC to address technical details. The session successfully aligned stakeholders, clarified regulatory expectations, and established a strong foundation for advancing the NAI project in accordance with state and federal requirements. Beau received positive feedback from NAI, CEC, EERC, and Ryan Siats (the project PIC) for his effective preparation, calm facilitation, and leadership throughout the process.

TABLE 8 rows=7 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #P3
  R01C02: Develop strategies that result in successful client pursuits and engagements
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Appropriate planning
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Develops strategies and approaches that result in successful proposals and projects
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Is able to discern and satisfy client’s needs and requirements
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Successfully sells new services and penetrates our desired markets
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Successfully pursues new clients and project opportunities
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Supporting Examples
  R07C02: During Beau’s tenure at Barr, he has primarily focused on his technical expertise, executing and growing work with existing clients, and collaborating with other Barr staff in the pursuit of new clients and new project opportunities. In some cases, Beau has subsequently handed off work with these clients to others who are better positioned to provide the support (e.g., based on location, technical expertise, and billing rate) while providing ongoing technical support and guidance, opening him up for additional opportunities. For example, Corey Mead and Beau were the first Barr staff to support the BWO refinery in Salt Lake City, UT, to prepare their initial Title V application in 2015. Beau also led the effort to develop the initial Title V application for Marathon’s (Tesoro at the time) refinery in Salt Lake City in parallel with BWO’s application. After successfully completing these permit application projects, Beau handed off his support of BWO to staff in Barr’s recently opened Salt Lake City office, and further support of Marathon’s application to other staff who were already supporting the refinery. Beau also demonstrates the ability to expand services within an existing engagement by identifying adjacent needs and aligning Barr resources accordingly. Through Barr’s core environmental permitting work with Cerilon, Beau supported expansion into additional service areas, including topsoil management and supporting environmental review components for DOE Title 17 Clean Energy Financing efforts. This reflects both understanding of client needs as the project evolves and the ability to position Barr to deliver broader value. Beau has also been successfully pursuing new project opportunities, many of which require discerning a client’s needs and requirements. For example, Barr’s support to Chord Energy, an oil and gas company, in 2024 regarding Part 98 Subpart W reporting and Scope 1 emissions for internal ESG metrics. Chord was not sure what the scope or deliverables would be but knew they had to benchmark the projected impacts to Chord’s Subpart W reporting from recent regulatory changes and develop Scope 1 emissions across various entities and operations under the Chord umbrella. Through multiple communications with Chord (emails and conference calls), Beau developed a successful proposal that met Chord’s request and identified the specific deliverables Chord sought. At the AFPM Environmental Conference held October 19–21, 2025, Beau served as a featured speaker during the technical session “The Vapor Pressure is On: Expert Panel Update on All Things Storage Tanks & Loading Racks.” The session brought together regulatory, operational, and legal experts to discuss the rapidly evolving compliance landscape for petroleum refineries and downstream gasoline-distribution facilities. Beau’s presentation focused on enhanced monitoring strategies for storage tanks, emphasizing practical, data-driven approaches that extend beyond baseline NSPS Kb and MACT WW requirements. The presentation offered actionable strategies to strengthen compliance programs and anticipate future regulatory developments, earning positive engagement during an interactive Q&A on emerging trends in tank monitoring. This presentation helped grow Barr’s brand as an industry leader in a regulatory field undergoing enforcement across the country.
  R07C03: During Beau’s tenure at Barr, he has primarily focused on his technical expertise, executing and growing work with existing clients, and collaborating with other Barr staff in the pursuit of new clients and new project opportunities. In some cases, Beau has subsequently handed off work with these clients to others who are better positioned to provide the support (e.g., based on location, technical expertise, and billing rate) while providing ongoing technical support and guidance, opening him up for additional opportunities. For example, Corey Mead and Beau were the first Barr staff to support the BWO refinery in Salt Lake City, UT, to prepare their initial Title V application in 2015. Beau also led the effort to develop the initial Title V application for Marathon’s (Tesoro at the time) refinery in Salt Lake City in parallel with BWO’s application. After successfully completing these permit application projects, Beau handed off his support of BWO to staff in Barr’s recently opened Salt Lake City office, and further support of Marathon’s application to other staff who were already supporting the refinery. Beau also demonstrates the ability to expand services within an existing engagement by identifying adjacent needs and aligning Barr resources accordingly. Through Barr’s core environmental permitting work with Cerilon, Beau supported expansion into additional service areas, including topsoil management and supporting environmental review components for DOE Title 17 Clean Energy Financing efforts. This reflects both understanding of client needs as the project evolves and the ability to position Barr to deliver broader value. Beau has also been successfully pursuing new project opportunities, many of which require discerning a client’s needs and requirements. For example, Barr’s support to Chord Energy, an oil and gas company, in 2024 regarding Part 98 Subpart W reporting and Scope 1 emissions for internal ESG metrics. Chord was not sure what the scope or deliverables would be but knew they had to benchmark the projected impacts to Chord’s Subpart W reporting from recent regulatory changes and develop Scope 1 emissions across various entities and operations under the Chord umbrella. Through multiple communications with Chord (emails and conference calls), Beau developed a successful proposal that met Chord’s request and identified the specific deliverables Chord sought. At the AFPM Environmental Conference held October 19–21, 2025, Beau served as a featured speaker during the technical session “The Vapor Pressure is On: Expert Panel Update on All Things Storage Tanks & Loading Racks.” The session brought together regulatory, operational, and legal experts to discuss the rapidly evolving compliance landscape for petroleum refineries and downstream gasoline-distribution facilities. Beau’s presentation focused on enhanced monitoring strategies for storage tanks, emphasizing practical, data-driven approaches that extend beyond baseline NSPS Kb and MACT WW requirements. The presentation offered actionable strategies to strengthen compliance programs and anticipate future regulatory developments, earning positive engagement during an interactive Q&A on emerging trends in tank monitoring. This presentation helped grow Barr’s brand as an industry leader in a regulatory field undergoing enforcement across the country.

TABLE 9 rows=8 cols=3
  R01C01: Criteria #P4
  R01C02: Contributes to strengthening and building our business by leveraging staff to obtain and deliver projects
  R01C03: Behaviors witnessed or verified (select one)
  R02C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R02C02: Training staff to be consultants
  R02C03: A B C F
  R03C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R03C02: Understanding of, and ability to cross-sell, all of the services that we can offer throughout the Company
  R03C03: A B C F
  R04C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R04C02: Ability to bring together staff from throughout the Company and work on teams across geographic and business unit boundaries
  R04C03: A B C F
  R05C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R05C02: Increasing revenue under management
  R05C03: A B C F
  R06C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R06C02: Leading successful proposal or project expansion efforts
  R06C03: A B C F
  R07C01: Qualitative Evidence
  R07C02: Leading service development or geographic expansion initiatives
  R07C03: A B C F
  R08C01: Supporting Examples
  R08C02: Beau collaborates with staff across nearly all Barr offices. A few key examples are provided in the list below: SRC and Monroe Energy projects are primarily supported by staff in Duluth, as well as Robert Licari from the Salt Lake City office and Mark Mielke from the Grand Rapids office. NAI is primarily supported by staff from the Duluth and Hibbing offices. Cerilon projects are primarily supported by staff from the Bismarck and Minneapolis offices. BASF work is primarily supported by staff from the Ann Arbor and Grand Rapids offices. Chord Energy is primarily supported by staff from the Denver and Fort Collins offices. South Bow work was partly supported by staff from the Calgary office. This does not include Beau’s technical support for and collaboration with staff in other offices for a variety of projects and opportunities. Beau contributes to building Barr’s business most strongly through scaling delivery via delegation. His work with Monroe Energy illustrates this clearly. As the relationship matured, Beau helped expand and develop a team where multiple task managers now work primarily autonomously, building their own teams, while Beau provides guidance, QA/QC, and client continuity. This delegation also extends to his other clients, with his own hours consistently contributing less than 30% to his total LFAR as PM (see LFAR tables for details). Beau has also built project teams across business unit boundaries. One example is the development of the Certificate of Site Compatibility application for Cerilon, which required AR and WR staff contributions to conduct technical analyses (e.g., wetland delineation, T&E species evaluation, cultural resources) and prepare a comprehensive application that included these evaluations. Beau also has worked with AR, WR, and ED staff to support NAI’s permitting, tailings storage facility design, and concentrator design work. Beau has exhibited growing, sustainable revenue under his management over the past several years. He is also willing to work with and support other PMs on existing and new projects. For example, the Cerilon tasks that Beau led under an overall project manager (Amanda Gravseth). Amanda was best positioned to support Cerilon as the Project Manager and excelled in the role. Beau fully embraced his role managing tasks, collaborating on project management duties where appropriate, and supporting Amanda to help make a large and complicated project successful. In addition, Beau strengthens the business by training staff to be effective consultants. His leadership on redevelopment and delivery of Consulting 101, plus recurring internal and client training, builds consistent consulting capability and strengthens Barr’s technical brand.
  R08C03: Beau collaborates with staff across nearly all Barr offices. A few key examples are provided in the list below: SRC and Monroe Energy projects are primarily supported by staff in Duluth, as well as Robert Licari from the Salt Lake City office and Mark Mielke from the Grand Rapids office. NAI is primarily supported by staff from the Duluth and Hibbing offices. Cerilon projects are primarily supported by staff from the Bismarck and Minneapolis offices. BASF work is primarily supported by staff from the Ann Arbor and Grand Rapids offices. Chord Energy is primarily supported by staff from the Denver and Fort Collins offices. South Bow work was partly supported by staff from the Calgary office. This does not include Beau’s technical support for and collaboration with staff in other offices for a variety of projects and opportunities. Beau contributes to building Barr’s business most strongly through scaling delivery via delegation. His work with Monroe Energy illustrates this clearly. As the relationship matured, Beau helped expand and develop a team where multiple task managers now work primarily autonomously, building their own teams, while Beau provides guidance, QA/QC, and client continuity. This delegation also extends to his other clients, with his own hours consistently contributing less than 30% to his total LFAR as PM (see LFAR tables for details). Beau has also built project teams across business unit boundaries. One example is the development of the Certificate of Site Compatibility application for Cerilon, which required AR and WR staff contributions to conduct technical analyses (e.g., wetland delineation, T&E species evaluation, cultural resources) and prepare a comprehensive application that included these evaluations. Beau also has worked with AR, WR, and ED staff to support NAI’s permitting, tailings storage facility design, and concentrator design work. Beau has exhibited growing, sustainable revenue under his management over the past several years. He is also willing to work with and support other PMs on existing and new projects. For example, the Cerilon tasks that Beau led under an overall project manager (Amanda Gravseth). Amanda was best positioned to support Cerilon as the Project Manager and excelled in the role. Beau fully embraced his role managing tasks, collaborating on project management duties where appropriate, and supporting Amanda to help make a large and complicated project successful. In addition, Beau strengthens the business by training staff to be effective consultants. His leadership on redevelopment and delivery of Consulting 101, plus recurring internal and client training, builds consistent consulting capability and strengthens Barr’s technical brand.
