FILE: 2024-10-28 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: October 28, 2024
Time: 09:00 – 10:00 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach and coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Kim Alfonsi (EM Officer Process Coordinator), Todd Fasking (EM Facilitator)
Status Update:
Development Needs: Paul noted that the team had previously identified the following three areas as potential development needs:
Become more comfortable dealing with uncomfortable conversations. Beau confirmed that this is consistent with the feedback he has received to date. Although Beau thinks he has taken the “Crucial Conversations” training before, he has been unable to find documentation and is open to taking it again, especially given that the training has changed significantly over the last few cycles.
Become more decisive at making decisions on complex issues that involve stakeholders with competing interests. As agreed during the last coaching meeting on 8/27/2024, Beau followed up with Joel Trinkle (the source of the suggestion) and determined that Joel was identifying this as an area where Beau has shown progress recently and that this does not rise to the level of a development need. Joel intended the comment to be constructive feedback for continued growth. As such, the team agreed to discontinue this as a development need.
Become better at setting and following through on project deadlines, especially for tasks that are longer-term and/or have internal due dates. The team agreed that this area was based on a comment from a single team member and is not indicative of a wider issue. As such, the team agreed to discontinue this as a development need.
However, following feedback from Blaine Renkas and Sara Stroh (and Beau’s own self-awareness), the team agreed to add a development need related to Beau becoming a more accessible leader to Duluth staff. This came about as a result of a significant decrease in scores for the Duluth office in response to the most recent employee engagement survey . It was recognized that while Beau is present in the office every day, he typically has his door closed which gives the impression that he is not available to other staff. Beau acknowledged that he may not be the most approachable person and can appear to be a little intimidating until people get to know him.
Paul suggested that Beau create a file saved here to document progress made in addressing the two development needs settled upon above.
Networking within EM: Paul noted that it may be viewed unfavorably if the EM officers who claimed no line of sight on Beau in the May 2024 pipeline entry survey still claim the same in the next survey scheduled for mid-November, especially if Beau has not reached out to initiate contact.
Long Form:
Paul recognized that Beau had populated much of his long form as a first draft but that the text needs to be developed further before it is ready for detailed review by the team.
Paul advised that the “Project Management Experience” section will comprise a LFAR table that will be provided to Beau.
The team advised Beau that it’s probably better to respond to each of the eight criteria in a narrative format rather than responding to every sub-item explicitly.
Paul acknowledged that Beau had entered a number of questions in the liong form seeking advice on the approach totake. Paul recommended that Beau meet individually with either Erik (his coach) or Paul to run through these.
Action Items:
Paul will draft a slide or two summarizing Beau’s candidacy to be presented at the next EM Leadership meeting scheduled for 11/5/2024. Paul will seek input from the team before finalizing.
Beau will continue populating his long form in the “Shared documents” root folder. Past versions should be saved to the “Superseded folder with the version date (e.g., 2024-10-13 appended to the filename). The goal is to have a solid draft ready by the end of 2024.
Beau will reach out to the seven current officers who claimed “no line of sight” in the May 2024 pipeline entry survey and with whom he has had little contact, to introduce himself and establish connections. [Done 11/21/2024]
Beau will register for the upcoming “Crucial Conversations” training. [Done 10/28/2024]