FILE: 2024-12-10 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: December 10, 2024
Time: 14:00 – 14:36 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Status Update:
Development Needs:
Become more comfortable dealing with uncomfortable conversations. Beau reported that he has registered for the “Crucial Conversations” training to be held in late January 2025.
Become a more accessible leader to Duluth staff. Beau reported that this was going well until the last three weeks when he was either out sick or working at a client site.
While not a formal “development need”, Beau and the coaching team agreed on the importance of making efforts to network with EM officers claiming no line of sight on Beau.
Beau continues to track progress made in addressing the three items listed above in a workbook called “BCT Development Goals Tracking” saved here. This includes calls/meetings with six EM officers between 10/31 and 11/21/2024.
EM Officer 11/2024 “Pulse Survey”: Paul reported that the survey was closed last week and that Kim Alfonsi will be sending results to each candidate/coaching team shortly. There were four officers claiming no line of sight and nine voting “No” at this point. The survey results will be discussed along with progress on the long form at the next coaching meeting which Beau will schedule for 1/9/2025.
Long Form:
Beau has populated the introduction and responses to the four All Officer Criteria in his long form but that text for the Development Efforts and responses to the four Principal VP criteria still need to be entered before it is ready for detailed review by the team.
Beau asked whether he should be naming names in his long form. Paul advised that names can be included for those providing positive feedback but that titles/roles should be used to identify individuals in a negative context.
Process:
Paul described that the next steps will involve getting the long form done such that it can be shared with the Nominating Committee in mid-January. Blaine shared that he has previously served on the EM Nominating Committee and that 90% of the time their recommendation will be consistent with that of the coaching team. Paul shared that, at this point, it seems likely that the coaching committee will recommend a second cycle in the pipeline.
Beau expressed his hope that feedback will identify items for him to work on because, without it, it’s frustrating knowing what is expected of him. Paul noted that he will draft a slide deck that will be presented to the Nominating Committee.
Miscellaneous:
Beau noted that he has recently demonstrated leadership in conducting training for HF Sinclair in New Mexico and (with upcoming follow-up) and volunteering to take on the task of delivering tough messages to staff and clients. Blaine and Paul encouraged Beau to include such examples in his long form where relevant.
Action Items:
Beau will continue populating his long form and hopes to have a draft ready for review by the coaching team within the next week or so.
The team will discuss the status of the long form and the results/feedback from the 11/2024 Pulse Survey in the next coaching meeting on 1/9/2025.