FILE: 2025-04-09 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: April 9, 2025
Time: 14:00 – 15:00 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Kim Alfonsi (EM Officer Process Coordinator)
Status Update:
Status of Beau’s Candidacy:
The Nom Com agreed with the Coaching Team’s recommendation to withhold Beau’s nomination this cycle. This meant that Beau did not progress to a Dialog Session.
Beau now has the rest of 2025 to take steps that will facilitate his nomination in 2026. These steps include demonstrating progress on development needs and reaching out to EM officers to shift the results of the 11/2024 “pulse survey”, in which five officers voted “Yes”, four claimed “no line of sight”, and nine voted “No” (although most of the No votes sounded more like “Not Yet, pending review of the long form” which had not been completed at the time of the survey). The “pulse survey” results are saved in Beau’s Feedback folder.
The team noted that a second cycle in the pipeline tends to be a lighter lift than the first cycle (given that the long form is in good shape and will only need tweaking).
Feedback from Nominating Committee:
The team emphasized that the overall feedback from the Nom Com was very positive and complimentary.
Beau expressed concerns about the Nom Com’s comments on “adjusting style” and “quickly coming to conclusions”, but plans to discuss with Brian Greenwald and Joel Trinkle. Blaine noted that the issue may relate more to being mindful of the audience and crafting narratives that reflect where the audience is at.
Kim suggested that upcoming interactions with lawyers will provide an opportunity to demonstrate his ability to clearly explain in writing complex issues. Beau noted that a CARE interview last year complimented his writing ability. Erik stated that Lisa Ungar can serve as a second set of eyes when writing about complex issues for a non-technical audience.
Blaine and Paul expressed frustration that some of the Nom Com’s comments had not been mentioned previously. However, Paul noted that Beau has had a tendency during his candidacy to quickly rebut concerns expressed by feedback providers. The coaching team therefore encouraged Beau to be open-minded to constructive feedback rather than instinctively rebut and defend. Erik and Blaine emphasized that criticisms provided to date were not saying that Beau was “bad” at anything, and that Beau should respond to such comments constructively, using them as opportunities to have conversations with EM officers. Doing so is likely to result in positive responses from the EM officers. Paul noted that the EM officers’ hesitation to support Beau’s candidacy does not equate to opposition.
Other:
Beau has registered for the upcoming “Crucial Conversations” training (two hours/day between 4/28 and 5/9).
Beau is already working as the pseudo-PIC on HF Sinclair and Monroe projects. Ryan Siats’ project for Scranton in ND will provide a significant opportunity for Beau to serve in a similar role with Ryan.
Beau expressed an interest in reducing the level of documentation needed to track his efforts to demonstrate leadership and availability to colleagues in the Duluth office. It’s sufficient for him to track major interactions, rather than each day in the office.
Beau asked whether he needs to be doing anything regarding business development and strategic pursuits. This may be related to a “C” grade assigned to criterion #P3 e) “Successfully pursues new clients and project opportunities”. The consensus of the team is that Beau has enough business development going on with current clients and that he shouldn’t necessarily prioritize pursuing new clients (e.g., by following up on AskBarr enquiries). That said, he should document any efforts that he is making to demonstrate that business development is on his radar and he is being attentive to it.
Action Items:
Beau will contact Joel Trinkle and Brian Greenwald to clarify their feedback, discuss their concerns with Beau’s candidacy, and identify areas they would like Beau to work on. [Beau completed meetings with Joel, Brian, and Adam Driscoll on 4/29 & 30/2025. Beau also met with Ryan Siats for feedback on Scranton project on 4/29. Notes are available in the “Post-Nom Com Feedback” tab of BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx].
Beau will reschedule the next coaching meeting for 5/1/2025. [Done, 4/9/2025]