FILE: 2025-07-17 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: July 17, 2025
Time: 14:00 – 15:00 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Todd Fasking (EM Facilitator)
Status Update:
Status of Beau’s Candidacy:
Beau made a few updates to his long form and his “BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx” workbook since the last meeting on 6/5/2025.
Beau noted several recent crucial conversations. Some were related to Beau’s role as Jerusha Rawlings’ coach (since March 2025). After Jerusha ultimately left Barr, Beau reached out to Sara Stroh and Alison Pearson and was reassured that he did a good job coaching her through the last few months. Another crucial conversation was with Sam Anthonijs, who had voiced concerns related to the Scranton ND project.
Beau noted that he is now the coach for Evan Kay (EM Archeologist assigned to the Albuquerque office), in addition to Omar Elsayed.
Although Beau has reached out to all EM officers who were unfamiliar with his work, the coaching team recommended making additional touches, perhaps during EM Training Week.
The coaching team discussed whether feedback should be obtained from other staff who were not contacted in the first cycle. Paul will schedule a feedback interview with Ryan Siats (given Beau’s role as a pseudo-PIC on the Scranton ND project this year) and perhaps Ryan Payton (who has worked for Beau since joining Barr in April 2024).
Beau reported that it may be valuable to solicit feedback on his work with the other BU technical coordinators, but not before September given the recent turnover in these roles. These include Dave Herrington (ED), Ben Heinle (AR), Gareth Becker/Andrew Austin-Peterson (WR) and Hannah Stenoien (CBD). Other candidates for providing feedback are Jim Boyd (IS) and Sam Johnson (for work on the Superior Refinery).
Action Items:
Beau will continue to document progress on his development needs in his “BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx” workbook, in anticipation of incorporating ultimately into the long form. He may add newer examples to his long form (specifically on staff development), recognizing that the form will likely need to be culled to one page per criterion later in 2025.
Beau will continue his outreach efforts to make himself known to the EM officers, per item 1.1.4 above.
Paul will schedule feedback interviews with Ryan Siats and possibly Ryan Payton, per item 1.1.5 above. [Meeting with Ryan has been scheduled for 7/23/2025]