FILE: 2025-06-05 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: June 5, 2025
Time: 16:00 – 16:30 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Status Update:
Status of Beau’s Candidacy:
Beau completed the “Crucial Conversations” training (five two-hour sessions between 4/28 and 5/9). Beau thought it was pretty good, but noted that he was the second most senior person in the class. He picked an example conversation he had from a recent project to discuss in the training.
Beau has not yet reached out to the few remaining EM officers who are unfamiliar with his work but will do so.
Beau hasn’t updated his “BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx” workbook since the last meeting on 5/1/2025, but will do so.
Beau has continued his efforts to circulate in the Duluth office to make himself available to other staff. He noted that office morale seems to have improved recently. Hopefully, this will be reflected in the next engagement survey. Beau will work with Kate Sinner (Duluth OBUR) to arrange a social event for Duluth staff (kayaking, mountain biking, or something less physical).
Beau is serving as a pseudo-PIC on the Scranton ND project with Ryan Siats, and has weekly meetings to discuss the project. He has been gaining a better understanding of developing work orders for sub-contractors.
Beau reported that he continues to work with Brian Fitch on an evaluation of risks associated with Barr providing AI services, and presented to the Management Team on this recently.
The coaching team discussed whether feedback should be obtained from other staff who were not contacted in the first cycle. These include Jeanni Ledin, Taryn DeRosia, Allison Serakos, Al Reich, Grace Ricker, and Ryan Siats. Beau thought an interview with Ryan may be worthwhile, given their extensive work on the Scranton ND project this year.
Action Items:
Beau will schedule the coaching meetings for once every five weeks through the end of 2025. [Done, 6/5/2025. The next meeting is scheduled for 7/17/2025]
Beau will continue his outreach efforts to make himself known to the EM officers. [ALO2 discussed on 6/25 (she noted no need for discussion), CPT discussed on 6/26 and logged in tracking spreadsheet), AAW deemed not needed based on prior engagements (see tracking spreadsheet)]
Beau will continue to document progress on his development needs in his “BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx” workbook, in anticipation of incorporating ultimately into the long form. He may add newer examples to his long form (specifically on staff development), recognizing that the form will likely need to be culled to one page per criterion later in 2025. [Updates made to both long form and development goals tracking sheet]
Paul will follow up with Beau about seeking feedback from Ryan Siats per item 1.1.7 above.