FILE: 2025-05-01 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: May 1, 2025
Time: 14:00 – 15:00 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Status Update:
Status of Beau’s Candidacy:
Beau has between now and the end of 2025 to demonstrate progress on development needs and to position himself for nomination in 2026.
The team repeated that a second cycle in the pipeline tends to be a lighter lift than the first cycle (given that Beau’s long form is in good shape and will only need tweaking, primarily to document progress made).
The 11/2024 “pulse survey” results, saved in Beau’s Feedback folder, reported five officers voting “Yes”, four claiming “no line of sight”, and nine voting “No” (although most of the No votes sounded more like “Not Yet, pending review of the long form” which had not been completed at the time of the survey).
Beau reached out to Joel Trinkle, Adam Driscoll, and Brian Greenwald to clarify their feedback, discuss their concerns with Beau’s candidacy, and identify areas they would like Beau to work on. Beau documented the discussions in a new “Post-Nom Com Feedback” worksheet that he added to his “BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx” workbook. Feedback included (i) Beau’s tendency to get ahead of the audience, especially those with a different level of expertise, (ii) the need to continue building teams and PMs to fill in behind him. Joel suggested that Beau seek opportunities to build his/Barr’s brand (e.g., through external conferences, perhaps teaming with Cerilon). Joel also complimented Beau’s improvement in written materials (less redline markups) and suggested that Beau regularly walk around the Duluth office to make himself available to other staff.
Beau had a focus feedback session with Ryan Siats, primarily to discuss the Scranton ND project and a recent call with a large group of participants in which the many required permits were discussed. This project will also provide opportunities to serve as a pseudo-PIC.
Beau obtained feedback from Jeanni Ledin in which Jeanni reported improvements in Beau not getting too far ahead of his audience.
Beau noted that he feels comfortable with the staff he is helping to develop as PMs (Dane Jensen, Sam Anthonijs, and others mentioned in his long form).
Beau has been attending the “Crucial Conversations” training (two hours/day between 4/28 and 5/9). Beau has been paired with a recent college graduate new to Barr. Of the 20 or so participants, about half serve in internal roles at Barr.
Other:
Beau is already working as the pseudo-PIC on HF Sinclair and Monroe projects. Ryan Siats’ project for Scranton in ND will provide a significant opportunity for Beau to serve in a similar role with Ryan.
Beau noted his engagement evaluating Barr’s risk exposure to AI challenges. He noted that Civitas has replaced some of Barr’s routine services with an AI software solution.
The coaching team discussed whether feedback should be obtained from other staff that were not contacted in the first cycle. These include Jeanni Ledin, Taryn DeRosia, Allison Serakos, Al Reich, Grace Ricker.
Action Items:
Beau will schedule the next coaching meeting for 6/6/2025. [Done, 5/5/2025]
Beau will continue his outreach efforts to make himself known to the EM officers.
Beau will continue to document progress on his development needs in his “BCT Development Goals Tracking.xlsx” workbook, in anticipation of incorporating ultimately into the long form.
Beau will consider whether additional feedback should be obtained per item 1.2.3 above.