FILE: 2024-08-27 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: August 27, 2024
Time: 15:00 – 16:00 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach and coaching committee member), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Collection of Feedback
Status:
The team (Erik, Blaine and Paul) conducted interviews of 9 staff. Notes have been written up in Feedback Collected (BCT).docx.
Paul summarized the feedback as follows:
The coaching team discussed the feedback and tentatively proposed the following as actionable development needs to be carried forward:
Become more comfortable dealing with uncomfortable conversations. Beau will demonstrate progress on this by documenting such conversations in a separate docx saved here and how he dealt with them, and by documentimg his participation in the “crucial conversations” internal training.
Become more decisive at making decisions on complex issues that involve stakeholders with competing interests. See action item below for more details.
Become better at setting and following through on project deadlines, especially for tasks that are longer-term and/or have internal due dates. Beau will demonstrate progress on this by documenting that he has provided clear instructions when delegating work, including how he wants to be notified when deadlines appear unlikely to be met, and by documenting that he has checked in with staff regularly to make sure that due dates are met.
The coaching team discussed the following but decided that they did not rise to the level of development needs:
Engage more in external broadcasting efforts (AFPM, AWMA, COE, Arrowhead conference, etc.) to fly the flag for Barr and to build his personal brand. The team felt that this item could apply broadly to most, if not all, PIC candidates. Regardless, the long form should document Beau’s activities on this item.
Become more experienced in negotiating contract language. Again, the team felt that this item could apply broadly to all PIC candidates. In Beau’s case, the long form should document his anticipated engagement in a MSA for TC Energy and his current effort working with Amy Baudler and Brian Fitch to incorporate technology-related terms into client MSAs more generally.
Become better at reviewing/editing deliverables. The team felt that this was not a significant issue for Beau.
Although not discussed during the coaching meeting, Paul is providing for the coaching team’s consideration the following potential development needs identified by EM officers in the May 2024 pipeline entry survey. These were distributed to the team in an email dated 7/24/2024:
Building/developing new clients (mentioned by 5 officers).
Connecting with EM practitioners outside of typical teams (e.g., water or environmental review practitioners) and officers who claim limited line of sight (e.g., outside of fuels) (mentioned by 3 officers). Note that 8 current officers claimed “no line of sight” in the May 2024 pipeline entry survey .
Developing PMs to come behind him (and staff to replace him as the BWON go-to) (mentioned by 2 officers).
Understanding the client's concerns and needs before pursuing the solution.
Action Items:
Beau, Erik, Blaine will review the development needs proposed above and respond with other opinions/interpretations.
Beau will discuss development need 2 with Joel Trinkle to make sure that we’re interpreting Joel’s comment correctly and to seek his input on what actions would demonstrate progress.
Beau should consider reaching out to the 8 EM officers who claim no line of sight on his work.
Long Form:
Status
Beau has started populating “Principal VP Evaluation Form.docx” in the “Shared documents” root folder. Past versions should be saved to the “Superseded folder with the version date (e.g., 2024-08-27 appended to the filename).
The goal is to have a solid draft ready by the end of 2024.
Action Items
Beau will continue populating the form, (i) using information obtained from the feedback interviews, (ii) after reviewing the four example long forms saved here, (iii) leveraging the memories of folks he has worked with over the years, and (iv) seeking guidance from the coaching team as necessary. He will try to have drafted initial thoughts on all long form items by the next coaching meeting scheduled for 10/16/2024.
Process moving forward:
Status
Although not discussed during the coaching meeting, Paul is providing the following summary of the process over the current cycle, to supplement the process explained in the process flowchart:
Beau and his coaching team will work on preparing the long form between now and the end of 2024.
A non-binding survey will be sent to the EM officers in mid-November, shortly after the November EM officer meeting scheduled for 11/5/2024.
The coaching team will decide whether to recommend Beau for nomination and provide the long form and a summary pptx to the EM Nominating Committee for its consideration.
The Nominating Committee will convene in early January, conduct their work, and deliver their recommendation on Beau’s nomination to Todd by mid-February.
After taking into account input from the coaching team and the Nominating Committee, Todd will decide, by late February, whether Beau will proceed to a dialogue session with the EM officers.
The coaching team will send the long form and a brief pptx to the EM officers ahead of the dialogue session held in mid-March.
The EM officers will meet to discuss Beau’s candidacy and submit their final votes via the EM Officer Candidate Rating Form (surveymonkey) in late-March.
After taking into account input from the Nominating Committee, the EM officers, the dialogue session, and edge matching with other BUs, Todd will decide in April whether Beau is to be nominated and will send his decision to the Board of Directors and Management Team.

-- TABLE 1 --
No fatal flaws or derailers were daylighted
Positive comments: great to work with (JAT, DGJ, OE1, BAF, SLA, AJS) is technically sound (DGJ, REL3, AMG4) meets commitments (BAF) is a good communicator (BAF) is responsive (AJS, KLG2) is supportive and willing to answer questions (DGJ, OE1, SLA, REL3, KLG2) his management style is pretty laid back (DGJ, AJS, KLG2) takes others’ opinions into account (DGJ, OE1, KLG2) is calm under pressure (DGJ, AJS) doesn’t micromanage but gets involved when necessary (DGJ, AJS, KLG2) has developed good long-term relationships with clients (DGJ) is a strong coach/mentor (OE1, REL3, KLG2) good work in his role as EM Technology Coordinator (JAT) willing to take on challenges beyond his existing knowledge base (JAT) has a good number of EM team member supporting him (JAT) has developed strong relationships with clients and many Barr staff across multiple disciplines (JAT) has demonstrated lots of growth in the last couple of years (JAT)
Things to work on: can struggle with adapting his communication style to different audiences (JAT (but progress demonstrated), REL3) needs to gain additional experience in decision-making on complex issues (JAT) become better at reviewing/editing deliverables (JAT, but countered by DGJ and REL3) could pay closer attention to the possible implications of minor details (DGJ) engage more in external broadcasting efforts (AFPM, AWMA, COE, Arrowhead conference, etc.) to fly the flag for Barr and to develop his own reputation (JAT) could work on contract skills (BAF) could provide clearer instructions and expectations about due dates, and regular check-ins (SLA) appears to be uncomfortable doing uncomfortable meetings (AMG4) work on getting small or non-pressing tasks done sooner, instead of delaying them until they become urgent (KLG2)