FILE: 2025-01-09 Meeting (BCT).docx
PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: January 9, 2025
Time: 14:00 – 14:36 CT
Location: Teams Meeting
Project: EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees: Beau Thurman (candidate), Erik Boleman (coach), Blaine Renkas (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Todd Fasking (EM Facilitator), Kim Alfonsi (EM Officer Process Coordinator)
Status Update:
EM Officer 11/2024 “Pulse Survey”:
The team walked through the survey results. There were five officers voting “Yes”, four claiming “no line of sight”, and nine voting “No”. A copy of the results has been saved to Beau’s Feedback folder.
Importantly, no red flags were raised and most of the No votes sounded more like “Not Yet, pending review of the long form”.
We discussed some of the feedback, notably that from Ryan Siats suggesting that Beau gain more contracting experience, and that from Tony Widboom which related to a specific project. Paul stated that Beau can reach out to individual officers for clarification or further discussion if necessary.
Long Form:
Beau updated his long form on 1/3/2024. The coaching team (Erik, Blaine and Paul) committed to reviewing and providing comments by early next week.
PowerPoint Presentation:
Paul described what the slide deck will comprise and committed to providing a draft to the team by early next week.
Process:
Paul noted that the long form should be as complete as possible by Friday 1/17/2025 such that it can be shared with the Nominating Committee shortly thereafter. Paul shared that, at this point, it seems likely that the coaching committee will recommend a second cycle in the pipeline.
Paul noted that the presentation by the coaching team to the Nominating Committee is being scheduled for between 2/4-11/2025. Erik volunteered to present on behalf of the team. Kim noted that all coaching team members (but not the candidate) are invited to the presentation, but attendance is not required other than for the presenter.
Action Items:
Erik, Blaine and Paul will review and provide comments on the long form by early next week.
Paul will prepare a draft slide deck and share with the team early next week.
Beau will review and update the long form and slide deck as quickly as possible following comments by Erik, Blaine, and Paul to help meet 1/17 deadline.