FILE: Principal Vice President role description.docx
Company Role Description
Principal Vice President
Position Summary
Principal vice presidents are officers of Barr Engineering Co. nominated by their peers and appointed by Barr’s board of directors primarily to lead execution of, and maintain the client relationship during, project assignments. The rights, responsibilities, and expectations for company officers are described in the officer charter, which states that Barr relies on officers to behave ethically; employ good judgment in balancing company, staff, and client concerns; and model a willingness to put the long-term success of Barr Engineering Co. first. All officers are responsible for risk management, safety, professional ethics, maintaining a respectful workplace, staff development, and participation in company leadership.
In addition to the general rights, responsibilities, and expectations for a company officer, principal vice presidents have additional specific responsibilities related to projects, business development and client relationship management, and staff development. These are described here.
Reports to
The principal agrees to be coached by the facilitator (or his/her representative) of the business unit to which the principal is assigned. The facilitator has the responsibility and authority to monitor the principal’s performance and take appropriate coaching or other actions on behalf of the company to ensure the principal’s performance is consistent with the officer charter and this role description. Principals are accountable (expected to be able to justify their actions and decisions) to one another, their business unit facilitator, and the facilitator of the business unit to which their projects are assigned. As officers (vice presidents) of Barr Engineering Co., they are also accountable to the management team and CEO and ultimately to Barr’s board of directors and shareholders.
Management team members have an important responsibility and authority to monitor officers assigned to their subunits and take appropriate coaching or other actions on behalf of the company to ensure officer performance is consistent with this charter and the applicable role description. Officers are accountable (expected to be able to justify their actions and decisions) to their business partners: other officers, the management team and CEO, and ultimately Barr’s board of directors and shareholders.
Term of Service Principals serve in the role until their resignation or until they are removed from the role by the board of directors. Principals are eligible to be a principal in charge, a temporary role for a client project assignment.
Consistent and constructive engagement in the company is expected of all principals. To promote regular engagement, principals are generally expected to maintain base hours at 20 hours per week or greater or work at least 500 hours in any six month period. Exceptions to this expectation may be considered by the facilitator of the business unit to which the principal is assigned.
Responsibilities and Typical Activities
Principals are appointed when their peers and company leadership deem the individual has appropriately exhibited the following: good judgment and decision-making; effective project leadership; and development and maintenance of strong client relationships. It is also desirable that principals have demonstrated leadership with clients, project teams and company initiatives and effectively managed, coached, and mentored staff. Principals are ultimately responsible for the activities described below. They need not perform all of these activities themselves but they are responsible for successful completion of them either directly or through delegation.
Projects
When serving as a principal in charge (PIC), a principal vice president has ultimate responsibility for project success and is expected to lead and manage the project, ensure work quality, appropriately take and manage risk, and promote client satisfaction. As the complexities of Barr’s projects increase, principal vice presidents may be called on to serve in a capacity outside the traditional PIC role. Although not “in charge” of the project, principal vice presidents engaged in a project in another role are expected to provide leadership in support of the project PIC.
Planning
Work with clients to understand their expectations regarding scope, schedule, and budgets for project execution and document those expectations using appropriate tools.
Align the project work to maintain balance between the needs of the client, our company, and our staff.
Confirm a lack of conflicts with other principals prior to initiating new projects.
Plan for successful project outcomes (i.e., develop appropriate QA/QC plans and establish project roles and responsibilities).
Plan for safe execution of project work and demonstrate a commitment to health and safety to project teams.
Work with the project manager and team as appropriate to establish initial project strategies, then monitor the project, adjust as needed, and verify that staff understand project goals and objectives.
Verify that appropriate project and records management tools, processes, and practices are established.
Project and Risk management
Actively manage project risks and engage others as necessary to provide expert advice.
Review and execute project contracts, ensuring that appropriate contracts are in place and project risks are appropriately mitigated.
Verify that appropriate individual and company registrations are in place when working in new locations.
Monitor scope, schedule, and budget against the agreement and take timely corrective action, if necessary.
Negotiate change management processes with clients and verify that these are followed.
Ensure that accurate invoices are prepared and delivered to clients in a timely manner.
Strive to enhance Barr’s brand and reputation during all project engagements.
Execution
Provide direction to the project manager and project team regarding work quality and client/company expectations.
Ensure that appropriate technical experts are engaged on projects to provide independent quality review and validation for technical issues and verify that critical assumptions and computations are reviewed.
Provide technical direction for project design development and oversee management, administration, and technical aspects of deliverables.
Review quality procedures for project systems and initiate corrective action, if necessary.
Check in with clients during and after project execution to gauge satisfaction and take corrective actions, if necessary.
Demonstrate respectful treatment of others and hold project team members and clients accountable for respectful treatment of each other.
Safety
Bear primary responsibility for adherence to client-specific safety requirements and Barr’s Health and Safety practices and policies. Integrate client safety requirements with Barr project safety requirements and obtain annual updates to client safety programs. Be responsible for project team safety.
Business Development and Client Relationship Management
Maintain existing client relationships, including cross-selling and cross-serving, and seek opportunities to gain a larger share of those clients’ work.
Engage with client development teams and market sector forum programs as appropriate for an individual service area.
Consult with business partners before committing Barr’s resources to large projects or projects that are outside our typical areas of practice or geography.
Identify, select, and develop new client opportunities.
Assess risk profile of clients and project opportunities using appropriate tools and impose requirements where necessary to protect collective company and business unit interests.
Lead or actively participate in proposal go/no-go decisions.
Lead proposal strategy development efforts while engaging others as appropriate.
Lead or assist with client development-focused and other business development initiatives, as appropriate.
Negotiate fees and pricing to meet Barr’s objectives.
Staff Development
Model positive engagement with project teams and consistently show respect for team members.
Ensure that appropriate guidance and informal coaching is provided to staff on project assignments.
Develop new project managers and project leaders, including participating in principal candidate coaching and vetting for business unit nomination.
Assist business unit staffing coordinator with staffing functions as appropriate, including career development and coaching, performance review and management, and hiring and onboarding.
Participate in billing rate determination and bonus recommendation processes.
Participate in Barr’s coaching program as a coachee and a coach, as appropriate.
Actively engage in and provide leadership for appropriate practice group(s).
Identify new service development needs and participate in service development efforts.
Promote development of technical skills to support market, client, and project needs.
Minimum Qualifications
Current Barr employee
Relevant engineering and/or environmental consulting experience
Demonstrated good judgment and decision-making—including the ability to deal with uncertainty and manage risk
Demonstrated ability to lead projects successfully
Demonstrated ability to develop and maintain strong client relationships
Demonstrated ability to apply appropriate technical knowledge and experience
Familiarity and concurrence with Barr’s strategic plan, business model, practices, processes, and culture
Experience in staff development, coaching, and/or mentoring
Demonstrated commitment to project team safety
Preferred Qualifications
Demonstrated ability leading cross-functional teams to implement successful projects
Experience in a formal Barr leadership position
Demonstrated ability to effectively lead business unit, branch office, and/or company initiatives
Ability to grow existing service area or clientele
Demonstrated contributions to the success of practice groups and the development of new practice areas to support our clients’ needs
Demonstrated participation in successful development of services, offices, and geographic markets beyond his/her services, home office, or primary market focus
Proven ability to influence without authority, including ability to build strong peer relationships and collaborate on decisions in a non-hierarchical organization
Competencies
The competencies listed below are the skills and behaviors that matter most for performance in this role and may be useful to consider when developing and selecting a candidate for this role or when coaching a person in this role. For practical guidance to help one demonstrate these competencies or compensate for overuse or lack of a competency, see FYI A Guide for Development and Coaching on the Training and Development or Coaching site on BLINK.

-- TABLE 1 --
Factor I: Thought Customer Focus (A.11) Financial Acumen (A.17) Manages Complexity (B.9) Decision Quality (B.12) Factor II: Results Ensures Accountability (F.1) | Factor III: People Collaborates (G.6) Develops Talent (H.13) Builds Effective Teams (H.34) Communicates Effectively (I.7) Factor IV: Self Courage (J.10) Instills Trust (J.36) Manages Ambiguity (L.3)