FILE: Process for developing and appointing business unit vice presidents.pdf

---- PAGE 1 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-1 
 
Process for developing and appointing business unit vice presidents 
Related practices 
CO1.3.1 – Process for developing and appointing business support vice presidents 
CO1.3.3 – Process for appointing special vice presidents 
Primary participants – definitions, roles, and responsibilities 
The process participants are listed in Table 1 along with summaries of their roles and responsibilities. 
Background 
The BU vice presidents are officers of Barr Engineering Co., nominated by their peers, and appointed by 
the board of directors following a process that is similar, but not identical, to the processes we employ to 
develop and appoint other types of vice presidents. The BU vice president roles have distinct 
responsibilities as documented in their respective role descriptions: 
Principal Vice President 
Technical Vice President 
Business Development Vice President 
The vice president designation is conferred based on acknowledgement that an individual has reached 
the point where they: 
1. Meet the expectations  and applicable criteria  described in  the Officer charter and supporting 
attachments  and have sufficiently demon strated  their ability to adequately perform the 
responsibilities and activities in the applicable vice president role description  
2. Will conduct business in a manner that considers both client satisfaction and the best 
interests of Barr’s shareholders .  
Summary 
The business unit (BU) vice president roles are as follows: principal vice president, technical vice 
president, and business development vice president. This document and associated attachments detail 
the processes by which: 
• individuals are identified and selected for BU vice president development  
• these individuals are coached and developed, and 
• qualified candidates are vetted and appointed 
This document also describes the methods used to standardize the development and appointing 
processes across BUs and offices and the procedures used to verify and document consistency and 
fairness for staff.

---- PAGE 2 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-2 
 
To help the candidate understand the responsibilities and work toward being named a BU vice president, 
a coaching team helps the candidate to gather, interpret, and act on feedback about company needs (e.g., 
leadership and staff development), the candidate’s developmental needs, and preparedness for the role.  
The candidate identification, development, and appointing process is intended to use consistent and 
transparent criteria. The process is designed to focus on the selection criteria, equal opportunity 
employment policy, and values and principles defined in the strategic plan. Our goal is to provide a 
consistent candidate experience that provides constructive feedback on development needs and progress. 
This practice document describes the process applied to staff who aspire to fill a BU vice president role. 
There are qualified staff who do not aspire to be vice presidents and, therefore, their development goals 
and coaching experience will be different.  
The BU vice president process is designed to assess readiness for a role for which the candidate was not 
hired but rather has evolved towards over the course of his or her career, whereas the business support 
vice president process was designed to verify that a candidate is performing acceptab ly in the role for 
which they were hired. 
Practices 
The process by which candidates are identified, developed, and appointed is outlined in the attached 
Figure CO1.3.2. The functional portions of the process are conducted on a regularly scheduled basis as 
shown on Table 2. The individual candidate residency within the process will be dependent on the 
individual development needs, the efforts taken to work on the development needs, and the 
opportunities available to demonstrate proficiency with the criteria. The candidate can expect that the 
process may take 2 – 5 years. 
The process has three major phases, outlined below. 
Phase 1 - Pipeline selection: select new candidates for BU vice president development pipeline  
 
Pre-screening based on objective data 
On an annual basis, generally in mid-February, the corporate entry committee (see makeup of the 
corporate entry committee in Table 1) compiles objective “pre-screening” data and develops an initial 1st 
Tier list of potential candidates for the BU vice president roles. The corporate entry committee also solicits 
input from the management team on current company needs (e.g., leadership in branch offices or service 
areas) as the initial list of potential candidates is developed. The 1st Tier screening criteria are as follows: 
• Active employee 
• At least one year at Barr  
• More than ten years’ relevant professional experience 
• Exempt employee 
• Assigned to a Business Unit 
• Full-time, Reduced time, or Part -time

---- PAGE 3 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-3 
 
The corporate entry committee also compiles objective 2nd Tier data for consideration by the BU entry 
committee. The 2nd Tier data to be considered for pipeline selection will vary between the three BU vice 
president roles. Examples of the data to be considered include:  
All roles 
• review of year end feedback and HR file to confirm satisfactory performance and no concerns 
regarding behavior misaligned with company values  
• engagement in internal roles (e.g.,  coaching, ment oring, BU support roles, office coordinator, 
market sector forum and CDT leadership roles , company initiative leadership, practice groups, 
etc.) 
Principal vice president role 
• labor fees at a pplied rates (LFAR) and total gross revenue managed in the previou s three 
years and the previous year   
• variances  
• percentage of work managed , but not performed  by the candidate   
• number of and estimated revenue of successful proposals managed by the candidate  
Technical vice president role 
• listing of publications and presentations  
• external roles (e.g., contributes to industry guidance or rulemaking efforts, service on industry 
committee, serve on university advisory board, provide training to clients)  
• documentation of development of QA/QC procedures in  area of practice  
• documentation of coaching and mentoring others to become technical leaders and strong 
consultants  
• evidence of developing and leading internal technical trainings  
Business development vice president role 
• number of and estimated revenue of successful proposals managed by the candidate  
• number of opportunities  identified and pursued  tied to proposals and projects  
• relationships/opportunities transferred to others  
• documentation of active engagement with external network  
• observations of represen ting Barr at client -focused conferences and sponsoring others at 
these events  
• observations of active engagement with forums, CDTs, and corporate business development 
staff 
Much of the objective data listed above is collected and managed in Deltek or in HRIS. However, we do 
not currently collect and manage all desired objective data. The entry committee will occasionally request 
data from potential candidates (e.g., listing of publications and presentation, external roles,

---- PAGE 4 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-4 
 
documentation of active engagement with external network). Requesting data from a potential candidate 
does not guarantee their inclusion in the vice president development pipeline.  
The list of potential candidates prepared by the BU entry committee is developed by reviewing the 
available data related to staff in the BUs and identifying those with demonstrated leadership. The types of 
data considered for the pipeline selection phase is shared with potential candidates; however, the names 
of individuals and their relative ranking is not shared publicly. 
BU vice president input solicited 
The list of screened potential candidates and associated data is presented to the BU vice presidents  in 
each BU and the BU vice presidents make recommendations for whom they believe should be in the BU 
vice president development pipeline. Input will be solicited from vice presidents outside the potential 
candidates’ BUs to supplement the BU vice presidents’ knowledge of the individuals  as needed. The BU 
vice presidents can propose staff for consideration who were not included on the list developed by the BU 
entry committee, with appropriate and documented justification. 
HR input solicited 
The BU vice president-recommended list of candidates is provided to the HR director and BU staffing 
coordinators for input on performance related issues that could prevent entry to the pipeline. Example 
questions to consider include: 
- Has the candidate been on a Performance Improvement Plan?  
- Has the candidate been the subject of a formal H R investigation?  
- Has the candidate been the subject of a respectful workplace complaint?  
- Has there been informal complaints about the candidate’s interactions with others at Barr?  
Answers to these questions are provided to the BU facilitator, BU staffing coordinator and BU officer 
process coordinator (BU OPC). A “yes” answer to any of these questions does not automatically preclude a 
potential candidate from the pipeline; however, the HR director, BU staffing coordinator, and facilitator 
will evaluate the timing, severity, and frequency to determine if issues were satisfactorily resolved and if 
the candidate is eligible to enter or continue in the pipeline. 
Edge-matching across BUs 
The BU vice president-recommended list of candidates is also returned to the corporate entry committee 
for edge matching across the BUs. As part of the edge-matching process, potential candidate interest in a 
BU vice president role is verified by the BU OPC for that BU. The final recommended list is sent to the BU 
facilitator for approval or modification. Ultimately, the BU facilitator decides who enters the BU vice 
president development pipeline. 
 
Coaches of screened potential candidates who are not selected for the vice president development 
pipeline are provided with a summary of the BU vice president and entry committee feedback and are 
asked to share the information with their coachee.

---- PAGE 5 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-5 
 
Phase 2 – Coaching and development: establish coaching team, development plan, and 
implement coaching process 
Coaching committees established 
For each candidate, the BU OPC, BU leadership coach and BU facilitator will recruit a vice president 
development coaching committee (coaching committee). The members of the coaching committee 
generally include the BU leadership coach, the candidate’s assigned coach, and at least one additional vice 
president. The BU leadership coach participates on all BU coaching committees. If a BU has more coaching 
committees than one BU leadership coach can reasonably handle, the facilitator may elect to have an 
additional BU leadership coach for the BU. The BU leadership coaches provide coaching consistency 
across the coaching committees, coordinate feedback collection, and in conjunction with the B U OPC, 
ensure that coaching meetings are scheduled and attended. If the candidate’s assigned coach is not a vice 
president or otherwise not well-suited to aid in the development of the candidate’s vice president 
competencies, the BU facilitator may consult with the candidate and her/his coach to replace the assigned 
coach. The candidate’s coach and the additional vice president can be from any BU. Prior to officially 
forming the coaching committee; the BU OPC confirms commitment from each member. 
Each coaching committee works with their candidate to gather and interpret feedback from stakeholders, 
reflect on developmental actions, and identify areas that need to be strengthened. The solicited feedback 
will focus on the all-officer criteria and the specific criteria for the candidate’s pursued role. If other 
feedback is provided, it will also be considered for inclusion in the development plan, if appropriate. The 
coaching committee may use the feedback gathering templates or another format as appropriate. 
Each new coaching committee is “kicked off” by the BU OPC who meets with the candidates and coaching 
committee members to review roles and responsibilities, explain the process, and to answer any 
questions. 
Development plans prepared for new candidates 
Within the first few months of initiating a new coaching committee, the coaching committee (supported 
by the staffing coordinator of the candidate’s BU) compiles feedback on development needs (e.g., year-
end feedback, project team feedback, candidate self-identified experiences and needs, candidate’s status 
relative to the criteria for all officers and their potential new vice president role, and potentially additional 
assessments). This feedback forms the basis of a written development plan for the candidate related to 
the established criteria (and other factors identified during the assessments), the Officer charter and 
specific vice president role selection criteria, and the appropriate vice president role description. The plan 
includes identifying experience, skill, and competency gaps, development needs, activities to support 
development, and benchmarks/goals to measure progress. The coaching committee works closely with 
the candidate and others, as appropriate to prepare and implement the plan. The development plan is 
updated regularly in response to new experiences, feedback, or newly identified development needs.

---- PAGE 6 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-6 
 
Coaching meetings and assessments 
The candidate schedules meetings and meets with their coaching committee quarterly to discuss progress 
on the development plan and feedback compiled during the quarter. Between meetings, the committee 
may solicit feedback, observe candidate progress, and provide support as requested by the candidate.  
The coaching committee documents the meeting topics and discussion for each quarterly coaching 
meeting. The coaching committee posts the documents to the candidate’s BarrLINK site.  
The candidate should notify the BU OPC if the coaching committee is failing to meet and/or provide 
adequate coaching. The BU leadership coach should notify the BU OPC if the candidate or any of the 
coaching committee members are not meeting their commitments. The BU OPC will work with the 
facilitator, coaching committee, and candidate to adjust the coaching committee, if necessary.  
The coaching committee determines if the candidate is making appropriate progress on the development 
plan on an annual basis. If there is concern that the candidate is not making progress, the coaching 
committee will engage the BU OPC. Together they will determine if the coaching committee has been 
adequately supporting the candidate, if the candidate’s development plan addresses the root cause issues 
for the candidate, and if the candidate has been engaged in the process. The outcome of this assessment 
may result in changes to the coaching committee and/or the development plan. If the candidate is not 
engaged in the development process or if it does not appear likely that the candidate will meet the 
established criteria, the facilitator will be consulted for a determination on the candidate’s status in the 
pipeline. The facilitator will make the final decision regarding removing a candidate from the development 
pipeline. However, the candidate may remove herself/himself from the pipeline, at any time, without the 
facilitator’s approval. If a candidate is removed from the development pipeline, for whatever reason, the 
reasons or justifications for that decision will be documented by the coaching committee and given to the 
BU OPC and facilitator. 
Phase 3 – Stakeholder consensus: report, assess readiness for officer designation, and appoint as 
vice president, if ready 
Annual meeting with BU vice president nominating committee 
On an annual basis (generally early first quarter), each coaching committee evaluates progress of their 
candidate relative to the selection criteria and reports progress for their candidate to the candidate’s BU 
vice president nominating committee, which is made up of at least 20% of the BU vice presidents, the BU 
OPC, and the facilitator. The BU vice president nominating committee members are appointed by the 
facilitator. The coaching committee’s oral report should include a summary of the candidate’s 
development needs, development progress, any difficulties encountered during the development phase , 
and its recommendation. The recommendation may be: 
• to continue coaching for the next year  
• nominate  the candidate  to the entire BU vice president  group, or  
• recommend removing the candidate from the pipeline .

---- PAGE 7 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-7 
 
If the coaching committee recommends that the candidate be nominated during the current year, they 
should present a draft write-up to the BU vice president nominating committee for their consideration. 
The BU vice president nominating committee considers the recommendation of the coaching committee, 
candidate progress, edge matching between candidates/committees, personal knowledge of the 
candidates, and other information provided by the staffing coordinators or other sources. 
If the BU vice president nominating committee recommends continued coaching, any feedback provided 
by the BU vice president nominating committee is shared with the candidate by his/her coaching 
committee. The BU vice president nominating committee feedback may lead to revision of the candidate 
development plan and/or additional development activities. 
HR input solicited 
The BU nominating committee-recommended list of candidates is provided to the HR director and BU 
staffing coordinators for input on performance related issues that could prevent nomination as a vice 
president. Example questions to consider include: 
 
- Has the candidate been o n a Performance Improvement Plan?  
- Has the candidate been the subject of a formal HR investigation?  
- Has the candidate been the subject of a respectful workplace complaint?  
- Has there been informal complaints about the candidate’s interactions with others at Barr? 
Answers to these questions are provided to the BU facilitator only. A “yes” answer to any of these 
questions does not automatically preclude a potential candidate from nomination; however, the HR 
director, BU staffing coordinator, and facilitator will evaluate the timing, severity, and frequency to 
determine if issues were satisfactorily resolved and if the candidate is eligible for nomination.  
Present candidate to BU vice presidents for consideration 
If the BU vice president nominating committee agrees that the candidate is ready for nomination to the 
whole BU vice president group, the coaching committee and candidate presents the final “write-up” for 
the candidate to the BU vice presidents for review. 
The BU OPC schedules a “dialogue meeting” about the candidate. This meeting could be done as one 
single meeting or split into two parts. The typical invitees should be the vice presidents (from the BU and 
others the candidate has worked with), the BU staffing coordinator, the management team, the board of 
directors, and the candidate. The candidate will be required to attend the dialogue portion of the 
meeting, but the meeting is optional for others. The meeting includes a brief presentation about the 
candidate by the coaching committee, an opportunity for the vice presidents to ask questions of the 
coaching committee, and opportunity for the attendees to have dialogue with the candidate.  
After the dialogue meeting, the vice presidents (from the BU and others the candidate has worked with) 
vote whether the candidate should be recommended by the BU for appointment as a vice president . Each 
vice president’s vote should be based on their individual judgement that the individual sufficiently meets

---- PAGE 8 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-8 
 
the selection criteria and can adequately fulfill the duties and responsibilities described in the Officer 
charter and specific vice president role selection criteria and the relevant role description. Vice presidents 
may choose to abstain from voting but are encouraged to participate by getting to know the 
qualifications of the candidates and then voting if they are adequately informed. The vice presidents have 
the opportunity to do their own due diligence prior to the BU vice president vote. If a BU vice president 
votes to withhold nomination, they are asked to provide reasons based on the selection criteria in the 
Officer charter and specific vice president role selection criteria, and the applicable role description. These 
reasons are recorded and provided to the coaching committee to incorporate into the candidate’s 
development plan, as appropriate. The BU OPC records all votes and reasons for “withhold nomination” 
and presents the information to the facilitator. The facilitator determines if there is general agreement of 
the BU vice presidents for the BU recommendation. 
Votes should be compiled in a secure location using a method that allows each voting vice president  time 
to carefully consider their vote and confidentiality. Microsoft Forms is recommended.  
Slate of candidates presented to the management team and board 
Each facilitator presents their BU slate of recommended new vice presidents to the management team 
(generally early in the second quarter). The facilitator shares voting results and relevant discussion for 
each candidate that was brought to their respective BU vice presidents for a vote. The management team 
develops its slate of recommended candidates based on the BU input and presents that recommendation 
and background information to the board of directors.  
Phase 4 – Board decision: assess readiness for officer designation  
Ultimate decision responsibility rests with the board of directors who vote on a board resolution 
appointing vice presidents, typically at its June meeting. Feedback from the board and management team 
discussions useful to the continued development of successful and unsuccessful BU nominees is  provided 
through the facilitators back to the coaching committees. 
Process deliverables and documentation 
This symbol is intended to note places where the material is sensitive or confidential and should be 
stored and transmitted using channels that are appropriately secure for the situation. In this case, each of 
the documents generated in this process, with the exception of the board resolution naming new vice 
presidents, are intended for limited audiences. The material should be stored and transmitted in a way 
that keeps information about the candidate’s participation and progress in this process limited to those 
who need to know it.

---- PAGE 9 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-9 
 
Deliverable/documentation Responsibility Document storage 
location 
Role descriptions CEO BarrLINK (company home, 
role descriptions) 
List of pre-screened potential 
candidates.  
corporate entry committee leadership development 
BarrLINK site 
List of pre-screened potential 
candidates and justification for 
whether they enter the development 
pipeline or not. If a candidate who 
was initially screened out is added to 
the development pipeline, the 
reasons are documented.  
BU entry committee secured BarrLINK site 
Quarterly meeting coaching 
notes 
coaching committee or 
candidate as assigned 
candidate BarrLINK site 
Reasons/justification for 
removal from the development 
pipeline 
coaching committee secured BarrLINK site  
Candidate development plan coaching committee 
(primary author) and 
candidate 
candidate BarrLINK site 
Candidate write-up coaching committee and 
candidate 
candidate BarrLINK site 
BU vice president “votes” for a 
candidate and reasons for 
withholding nomination votes 
BU OPC secured BarrLINK site 
Board resolution conferring officer 
designation 
board of directors (board 
secretary) 
board minutes 
 
Process monitoring 
The process described in this practice document is designed to produce high quality BU vice presidents in 
a fair, consistent, and fiscally responsible manner. It is intended to agree with company guiding principles, 
approved selection criteria, equal opportunity employment policy, and company values. Our goal is to 
provide a consistent candidate experience which provides constructive feedback on development needs 
and progress.  
Activities designed to achieve these objectives include the following: 
Activity Responsible Entity Timeline 
Verifying that established 
screening criteria for pipeline 
entry are applied appropriately 
HR director annually

---- PAGE 10 ----
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-10 
 
Activity Responsible Entity Timeline 
Evaluating consistency of 
coaching committee activities 
BU OPC annually 
Verifying the candidates are 
evaluated on established 
selection criteria 
facilitators annually 
Verifying that appropriate 
documentation is prepared to 
support process decisions 
BU OPC annually 
Measuring and evaluating 
consistency of process and 
outcomes by demographics 
HR director annually 
Evaluating the cost-benefit of 
the process 
management team 
  
annually 
 
 
Effective: Related materials: 
August 20, 2021 Officer charter and supporting attachments 
Supersedes practice:  Company Role Description for Principal Vice President  
March 19,2019 Company Role Description for Technical Vice President 
Document owner: 
CEO 
Company Role Description for Business Development Vice 
President

---- PAGE 11 ----
Table 1 
Primary Participants – Roles and Responsibilities 
 
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-11 
 
 
Entity Definition Role Responsibilities 
corporate entry 
committee 
Comprised of the BU 
OPCs and one 
additional person 
representing each BU 
appointed by the 
facilitator (e.g., 
staffing coordinator) 
Provide consistency 
of process across BUs 
for determining who 
enters the 
development 
pipeline. 
• Work with finance, HR, and CBD  to compile objective  1st Tier screening 
and 2nd Tier pre-screening  data. 
• Perform edge -matching between the recommendations of the separate 
BUs. Document process and basis for decisions.  
•  
BU entry 
committee 
Comprised of the BU 
OPC, facilitator, 
staffing coordinator, 
and leadership 
coach(es) if requested 
by facilitator 
Provide consistency 
of process within BU 
for determining who 
enters the 
development 
pipeline. 
• Review list of potential candidates  developed by the corporate entry 
committee and determine if s taff not meeting the 1st Tier screening 
criteria should be added.  
• Develop a list of potential candidates to be presented to the BU officer 
group for possible entry into the pipeline  considering the 2
nd Tier 
objective data . The number of potential candidate s for BU officer 
consideration will vary  by BU; however, the list is expected to be 
approximately 10 -25 staff. 
• Provide feedback to coaches of pre -screened staff who were not selected 
for the BU vice president development pipeline  
BU facilitator Senior leader for each 
BU, part of the 
management team, 
and leader of the BU 
support team 
Responsible for 
process activities 
within the BU. 
Appoints staff for the 
BU who implement 
the process. 
• Appoint entry committee member to serve with BU OPC (e.g., staffing 
coordinator).  
• Provide final determination on who enter s the BU vice president  
development pipeline  
• Appoint BU l eadership  coach(es)  
• Form coaching committee members for each c andidate with BU OPC input 
• Provide final determination on if a c andidate shoul d be removed from the 
development pipeline with support from the BU OPC 
• Appoint BU nominating committee  
• Attend annual BU nominating committee meeting  
• Determine if there is general agreement of the BU vice presidents  for 
nomination  
• Verify the candidates are evaluated on established selection  criteria  
• Report to the MT

---- PAGE 12 ----
Table 1 
Primary Participants – Roles and Responsibilities 
 
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-12 
 
Entity Definition Role Responsibilities 
candidate BU staff person who 
has entered the BU 
vice president 
development pipeline 
Actively engage in 
development 
activities as identified 
by the coaching 
committee and 
engage in the 
development process 
• Organize quarterly meetings with coaching committee  
• Inform BU OPC if committee is not meeting and/or not providing 
adequate coaching  
• Identify development needs  in cooperation with c oaching committee  
• Actively work on identified development needs including assigned 
activities  
• Assist with write -up preparation  
• Participate in BU vice president  dialogue meeting  
BU officer 
process 
coordinator 
(OPC) 
BU facilitator 
appointed staff. One 
per BU. 
Engage in, monitor, 
and facilitate 
implementation of 
the BU vice president 
development and 
appointing process 
• Participate on the entry committee.   
• Work with f acilitator to form  coaching committees for each c andidate.  
• Set up candidate BarrLINK site  
• Organize kick-off meeting with candidate and c oaching committee to 
review roles and responsibilities and answer process questions  
• Provide support when c andidate is not making appropriate progress  (e.g., 
adjust coaching committee, provide input on revisions to development 
plan) 
• Meet with the other BU OPCs BU leadership  coaches, and HR d irector 
biannually to share process concerns and best practices. 
• Evaluate consistency of coaching committee activities  
• Verify that appropriate documentation is prepared to support process 
decisions . 
• Attend annual nominating committee meeting  
• Work with BU n ominating committee  to determine if c andidates 
recommended by coaching committee should be presented to the whole  
BU vice president  group 
• Record discussion and votes (and justifications) during BU vice president  
voting meetings  and summarize for the facilitator 
BU leadership 
coach 
BU facilitator 
appointed staff. 
Provide coaching 
consistency across all 
BU coaching 
committees 
• Participate in ongoing coach training  
• Actively participate on all BU coaching committees  
• Coordinate feedback collection  for BU candidates  
• Ensure that a meaningful development plan is prepared f or each c andidate  
• Ensure that coaching meetings are scheduled and attended

---- PAGE 13 ----
Table 1 
Primary Participants – Roles and Responsibilities 
 
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-13 
 
Entity Definition Role Responsibilities 
• Hold the coaching committee members and candidate accountable for 
development activity  
• Prepare annual presentation for BU n ominating committee  
• Ensure coaching documentation is prepa red 
• Meet with the other BU l eadership coaches, BU OPCs, and HR d irector 
biannually to share process concerns and best practices. 
coaching 
committee 
BU leadership coach, 
candidate’s current 
coach, and one 
additional vice 
president 
Provide coaching to 
candidate 
• Collect and synthesize feedback for candidate  
• Prepare the c andidate’s development plan with input from the c andidate  
• Meet with the c andidate quarterly  
• Coach candidate on areas that need to be strengthened  
• Prepare documentation of why candidate is  removed from the pipeline, if 
necessary  
• Participate in the annual meeting with the BU n ominating committee  
• Prepare coaching documentation  
• Prepare “write -up” with c andidate’s input when the BU nominating 
committee agrees the candidate is ready  
BU nominating 
committee 
At least 20% of the 
BU vice presidents 
appointed by the BU 
facilitator 
Provide an annual 
review of all BU 
candidates in the vice 
president 
development pipeline 
and first review of 
coaching committee 
recommendation for 
nomination  
• Attend annual nominating committee meeting  
• Determine if c andidates recommended by c oaching committee s should be 
presented to the whole BU vice president  group and provide feedback to 
the coaching committee  
• Perform edge -matching between c andidates within BU  
BU vice 
presidents 
vice presidents within 
each BU 
Provide input on who 
should be in the vice 
president 
development pipeline 
and who should be 
nominated to be a 
vice president 
• Provide input on who should b e in the vice president  development 
pipeline  
• Provide input on who should be nominated by the BU to be named a vice 
president  
• Understand the criteria, review the documentation sufficiently to make an 
informed vote, and apply the criteria equally for all candidates

---- PAGE 14 ----
Table 1 
Primary Participants – Roles and Responsibilities 
 
Barr Engineering Co.                                              company practices CO1.3.2-14 
 
Entity Definition Role Responsibilities 
management 
team (MT) 
BU facilitators, the 
CEO, the chief 
operating officer 
(COO), and the chief 
marketing officer 
(CMO) 
Provide edge-
matching between 
BUs for 
recommendation of 
vice president 
candidates to the 
board of directors 
• Develop slate of  recommended candidates based on the BU and MT input 
• Provide feedback to c oaching committees for candidates  
• Present that recommendation and background information to the b oard 
of directors  
• Evaluate the cost -benefit of the process  
• Provide input to the e ntry committee on BU and company needs  
• Understand the selection criteria, review the documentation sufficiently to 
make an informed vote, and apply the criteria equally for all candidates  
board of 
directors 
seven staff elected by 
the ESOP participants 
Ultimate decision 
responsibility for 
appointing vice 
presidents 
• Vote on the board resolution appointing vice presidents  
• Review and approve the vice president  development and appointing  
process  
• Understand the selection criteria, review th e documentation sufficiently to 
make an informed vote, and apply the criteria equally for all candidates  
• Monitor the annual process and recommend modifications  
HR director senior HR resource Provide a monitoring 
role for process and 
act as a resource for 
candidates, coaching 
committees, BU 
OPCs, and others 
implementing the 
process 
• Review progress of candidates from entry, to development , to appointing  
or removal from the process for alignment with company values , and 
selection criteria  
• Verify that established screening criteria for pipeline entry are applied 
appropriately  
• Measure and evaluate consistency of process and outcomes by 
demographics  
• Assure that the process is non -discriminatory

---- PAGE 15 ----
Table 2 
Typical Process Schedule 
 
Barr Engineering Co.                                           company practices  CO1.3.2-15 
 
Timeframe Activities 
First Quarter Pipeline Selection Activities 
• Entry committee compiles “pre -screening” data and develops an 
initial list of potential candidates  in mid-February  
• Management team provides input  to entry committee  
• BU vice presidents  provide input to e ntry committee  
• Entry committee performs edge -matching and presents 
recommended list to the BU f acilitator for final approval in late 
March 
Development Activities 
• Established c andidates meet with coaching committees  
• Coaching committee s evaluate if candidate is making appropriate 
progress  
• Coaching committees report progress to the BU nominating 
committees  in late January or early February  
Appointment Activities 
• BU nominating committee selects candidates for presentation to the 
BU vice presidents  in late February  
• Coaching committees and candidates prepare write -ups (only 
candidates to be nominated) 
• Dialogue meetings with BU vice presidents  and candidat es in March 
• BU vice presidents  vote on candidates  by late March  
• Management team edge- matching and recommendations  
Second Quarter Development Activities 
• Establish coaching committees for new candidates  
• Conduct “kick off” meetings with new candidates and c oaching 
committees  
• Prepare d evelopment plans for new candidates  
• Established c andidates meet with coaching committees  
Appointment Activities 
• Board appointment of new vice presidents (June)  
Third Quarter Development Activities 
• All candidates meet with coaching committees  
Fourth Quarter Development Activities 
• All candidates meet with coaching committees  
• Coaching committee s evaluate if candidate s are making appropriate 
progress

---- PAGE 16 ----
Start
BU Entry committee 
reviews objective data 
for potential 
candidates (tech, BD, 
and principal) and 
develops list of 
screened candidates
Who will enter 
pipeline?
FACILITATOR
Candidate coaching 
committees formed
Coach provides 
feedback to staff 
person on 
development 
needs
Staff for standard coaching
Staff
for
 pipeline
Written development 
plan prepared
Meet quarterly with 
coaching committee 
and assess progress
Is candidate 
making 
appropriate 
progress?
COACHING 
COMMITTEE
Candidate works on 
development needs
Is
candidate working 
on development 
needs?
OPC/SC
Is
Coaching 
committee 
working with 
candidate?
OPC/SC
Is progress likely?
FAC/OPC/SC
yes
Adjust coaching 
committee and/or 
development plan as 
appropriate
no
yes
yes
BU
nominating 
committee reviews 
candidate progress 
and coaching 
committee 
recommendation
Does the
BU
nominating 
committee agree that 
candidate
is ready?
no
Dialogue meeting and 
candidate presented 
to BU vice presidents 
for vote
yes
Do the
BU VPs 
generally agree that 
candidate is ready for 
nomination?
FACILITATOR
no
Candidate presented 
to management team 
for edge matching and 
management team 
input
yes
Does
the MANAGEMENT 
TEAM agree that 
candidate is ready 
for nomination?
no
Candidate presented 
to board for 
appointment
yes
Does
the BOARD agree 
that candidate is 
ready for 
appointment?
no
Appoint new BU vice 
president
yes
no
BU VPs consider 
pre-screened list of 
candidates and 
make 
recommendations 
Corporate Entry 
committee conducts 
edgematching across 
BUs and makes 
recommendation to 
facilitators 
Candidate coaching 
committee meets 
annually with BU 
nominating 
committee
yes
annually
https://barr-my.sharepoint.com/personal/erichard_barr_com/Documents/BU officer process/BUVP_Process031919_Board Adopted
Management team  
provides input on BU 
and company needs to 
corporate entry 
committee
Coaching committee 
and candidate finalize 
write up to address BU 
nominating 
committee comments
Does the 
COACHING 
COMMITTEE plan 
to recommend 
candidate this 
year?
Coaching committee 
and candidate prepare 
draft write up to 
present to the BU 
nominating 
committee
yes
no
FAC = BU facilitator
OPC = BU officer process 
coordinator
SC = BU staffing coordinator
Note: The person or persons 
identified in ALL CAPs at the 
decision points is responsible 
for the decision.
HR Director conducts 
file review for 
potential new 
candidates
HR Director conducts 
file review for all 
candidates in the 
pipeline
Corporate Entry 
committee compiles 
objective data. Requests 
from potential technical 
or BD candidates, if 
necessary
Potential technical 
and BD candidates 
identified by coach, 
CBD staff, or staffing 
coordinator 
STOP: Resume 
std. coaching
no
no
FINISH: OFFICER 
STATUS GRANTED
Figure CO1.3.2
Process for Developing and Appointing Business Unit 
Vice Presidents
BOARD ADOPTED: 03/19/2019, revised 08/20/2021
Coaching and development phase 
Pipeline selection phase
Stakeholder consensus phase
Board decision phase
PROCESS LEGEND
