FILE: 2024-12-12 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	December 12, 2024
Time: 	09:30 – 10:18 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Allison Pearson (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Status Update
Given our struggle to identify specific “Development Needs” (documented in the summary of our last coaching meeting held on 11/21/2024), Sarah reported back on the action item requested of her by identifying “Growing the Environmental Review (ER) practice” as the main area for her to work on (based partly on feedback received). This would comprise the following:
growing the team. Sarah can’t possibly PM all the ER projects and there has to be a cohort of effective PMs to move the practice forward.
growing a book of business (reputation). Sarah noted that a typical way to obtain ER projects is to have done similar work previously. Sarah noted that she thinks Barr has established a strong footprint in ER projects related to solar and transmission projects in MN which positions Barr well for future similar projects.
The team debated whether the above reflects development needs for Sarah personally or needs for Barr that Sarah is best positioned to help address. Paul noted that need to grow the practice could be linked to one or more of the PIC criteria (e.g., Criterion A3 “Provides strategic thinking and leadership in area of practice or responsibility”)
The team discussed the status of the ER practice group (which may be up for reconsideration given the ongoing structural evolution discussions) and noted that taking on additional ER work has been limited by a lack of resources (staff). Allison noted that we need to address the perception that the ER PG is not delivering, and that Sarah is the person to improve it. Sarah noted that when she served as ER PG coordinator for a year before she left Barr, her focus was on setting the vision for the PG.
Sarah questioned whether the pipeline process involves refining some aspect of a candidate before either nominating as a principal or not. Paul explained that it takes time for a candidate to become comfortable with the transition from PM to PIC and for the EM officers to become comfortable with the candidate becoming a business partner. Being nominated within one cycle is typically not the norm.
Sarah reported that she has not edited her long form given it’s only been three weeks since the last coaching meeting on 11/21/2024. Paul noted that the goal is to have a solid draft ready by the end of 2024 although, in reality, we likely have until the 2024 LFAR becomes available and the EM Nominating  Committee gets established (in mid-January) to make final tweaks.
Paul reported that the 11/2024 “Pulse Survey” of EM officers closed last week and that Kim Alfonsi had summarized the results specific to Sarah in her feedback folder. There were seven officers claiming no line of sight and five voting “No”. However, those voting “No” didn’t offer specific suggestions on what Sarah needs to work on, which is not very satisfying and not what we were hoping for. Paul suggested that Sarah should reach out to those claiming no line of sight, more to ease the nomination process, even if they continue to claim no line of sight. Other candidates have found this outreach to be beneficial.
Action Items:
Sarah will continue to work on her long form with the goal of having it in good shape by mid-January.
Sarah will reach out to EM officers who have claimed no line of sight, but likely not until 2025.
