FILE: 2024-11-21 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	November 21, 2024
Time: 	10:30 – 11:30 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt and Allison Pearson (coaching committee members), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Status Update
Sarah prepared a first draft of her long form and distributed to the coaching team on 11/14/2024 for review and feedback. Much of the meeting was spent discussing this.
Currently, Sarah’s “Development Needs” are identified as:
obtain experience working with contracts. Paul noted that the list of Sarah’s experience with contracts under Criterion P1 is impressive, unusually so for PIC candidates. He therefore questioned whether this is a legitimate “development need” (although most of the contracting experience seems to have occurred in 2023 and 2024 which could be interpreted to mean she’s been working on it already before even entering the pipeline).
work on balancing her instinct to dig into interesting and complex problems against risk. The team debated alternative interpretations of this. Sarah drafted her long form assuming the “need” was to delegate more to others rather than diving into the details herself. Paul’s interpretation was that the “need” was to balance the risks to Barr of chasing after complex/novel problems that Sarah is instinctively drawn to. Sarah and Alina agreed that the latter is not a need for Sarah. Allison suggested waiting to see what feedback on development needs comes out of the ongoing “pulse survey”, which could identify “visibility of Sarah to other EM officers” as a possible development need.
The team agreed to revisit feedback received so far (including survey responses) to determine whether Sarah’s “Development Needs” are being identified appropriately. Sarah suggested “development of long-term clients”, “development of staff to fill in behind her” or “increasing visibility to EM officers” as possible “Development Needs”.
Perceptions of “development needs” (i.e., that Sarah (a) chases shiny objects and moves on when interest is lost, and (b) doesn’t develop long-term client relationships). Sarah and Alina expressed frustration that these have taken on undue emphasis and that they don’t warrant inclusion in the long form, and certainly not in the “Development Efforts” section. The team agreed with the latter but thought that they should be woven into the responses to the eight criteria because someone will likely ask about them given their past discussion among EM officers. Sarah reported that she had discussed Todd Fasking’s comments on relationships that he feels Sarah may have dropped (e.g., Flint Hills, Ecosphere acquisition) with him in person.
The team discussed whether specific paragraphs in the draft long form should be retained/shortened/moved. Sarah will prioritize which of the examples in Criterion A2 are worth keeping and will consider Paul’s suggestions regarding moving certain paragraphs to other criteria and incorporating Sarah’s positive variances under either A2 d) or P1 f).
Paul reminded Sarah that the expectation is that the response to each criterion is expected to be approximately one page. Some quotes in the long form are lengthy and could be shortened by paraphrasing.  Lisa Ungar can help with final editing.
The goal is to have a solid draft of the long form ready by the end of 2024 although, in reality, we likely have until the 2024 LFAR becomes available in mid-January to make final tweaks.
Action Items:
Sarah (and team) will apply some thought regarding the identification of the correct “Development Needs”.
Sarah will consider reaching out to EM officers who have claimed no line of sight.
