FILE: 2024-08-22 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	August 22, 2024
Time: 	09:30 – 10:30 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Rachael Shetka (coach and coaching committee member), Alina Heydt (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Collection of Feedback
Status:
The team (Rachael, Alina and Paul) has conducted interviews of 11 staff. Notes have been written up in Feedback Collected (SLJ2).docx. Paul is waiting for Andy Polzin to review/approve the summary of his interview before sharing with the team.
Paul summarized the feedback as follows:
Action Items:
Alina is scheduled to interview Veronica Parsell on 8/23/2024.
Paul will interview Lisa Ungar when she returns to the office on 8/26/2024. If this can’t be scheduled before Paul goes on vacation on 9/3/2024, Rachael will interview Lisa instead.
Sarah, Rachael, Alina will review the feedback notes and respond to Paul’s summary noted above with other opinions/interpretations.
Sarah will consider a focus feedback meeting with Todd Fasking to discuss his feedback (as interpreted by Paul), especially his comments on relationships that he feels Sarah may have dropped (e.g., Flint Hills, Ecosphere acquisition)
Long Form:
Status
Sarah to start populating “Principal VP Evaluation Form.docx” in the “Shared documents” root folder. Past versions should be saved to the “Superseded folder with the version date (e.g., 2024-08-22 appended to the filename).
The goal is to have a solid draft ready by the end of 2024
Action Items
Sarah will start to populate the form, (i) using information obtained from the feedback interviews, (ii) after reviewing the four example long forms saved here, (iii) leveraging the memories of folks she has worked with over the years, and (iv) seeking guidance from the coaching team as necessary. She will try to have made a start by the next coaching meeting scheduled for 10/3/2024.
Process moving forward:
Status
Sarah asked for a summary of the process over the current cycle, to supplement the process explained in the process flowchart. Paul and Rachael provided the following:
Work on preparing the long form between now and the end of 2024.
A non-binding survey will be sent to the EM officers in late November.
The coaching team decides whether to recommend the candidate for nomination and provides the long form and a summary pptx to the EM Nominating Committee for its consideration.
The Nominating Committee will convene in early January, conduct their work, and deliver their recommendation to Todd by mid-February.
After taking into account input from the coaching team and the Nominating Committee, Todd will decide, by late February, whether a candidate will proceed to a dialogue session with the EM officers.
The coaching team sends the long form and a brief pptx to the EM officers ahead of the dialogue session held in mid-March.
The EM officers meet to discuss the candidacy and submit their votes via the EM Officer Candidate Rating Form (SurveyMonkey) in late-March.
After taking into account input from the Nominating Committee, the EM officers, the dialogue session, and edge matching with other BUs, Todd will decide in April whether the candidate is to be nominated and sends his decision to the Board of Directors and Management Team.

---- TABLES ----

[Table 1 Row 1 Col 1]
No fatal flaws or derailers were daylighted

[Table 1 Row 2 Col 1]
Sarah’s many strengths were recognized as follows:
Very organized PM (plans ahead, sets appropriate deadlines)
Strategic thinker
Detail oriented
Good at setting up and developing teams
Good at developing team members who are challenging to work with
Good at delegating tasks (providing detailed guidance)
Well-liked by clients and colleagues, enjoyable to work with
Good communicator and personable
Good at digging into unique/tough questions/problems
Willing to take on work that others won’t

[Table 1 Row 3 Col 1]
Possible areas for development:
Address two perceptions before they take on undue prominence:
Perception that Sarah chases shiny objects and moves on when interest is lost
Perception that Sarah doesn’t develop long-term client relationships
Obtain experience working with contracts
Work on balancing her instinct to dig into interesting and complex problems against risk
