FILE: 2024-10-03 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	October 3, 2024
Time: 	09:30 – 10:30 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.24 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Collection of Feedback
Status:
The team (Rachael Shetka, Alina and Paul) conducted interviews of 13 staff. Notes are saved in Feedback Collected (SLJ2).docx.
Sarah reviewed and generally concurred with Paul’s summary of the feedback documented in the 8/22/2024 meeting notes.
This included the following as possible areas for development:
Address two perceptions before they take on undue prominence:
Perception that Sarah chases shiny objects and moves on when interest is lost
Perception that Sarah doesn’t develop long-term client relationships
Obtain experience working with contracts
Work on balancing her instinct to dig into interesting and complex problems against risk
The team briefly discussed how to address item i. and decided that the long form will present arguments that these perceptions do not rise to the level of development needs.
Action Items:
In response to an earlier action item, Sarah has scheduled an in-person follow-up meeting with Todd Fasking (when he is in Duluth the week of 10/14/2024) to discuss his feedback (as interpreted by Paul), especially his comments on relationships that he feels Sarah may have dropped (e.g., Flint Hills, Ecosphere acquisition).
Sarah will follow up with several EM officers who have claimed no line of sight. These include Brian Greenwald, Jeffry Bennett, Ryan Siats, Tom Kuchinski and Tony Shoberg (although Sarah was surprised to see Ryan on the list since she has worked with him previously). Sarah intends to use EM Training Week (the week of 10/7/2024) as an opportunity to engage with these folks.
Resignation of Rachael Shetka
Status:
Rachael resigned from Barr on 9/13/2024 which means that Sarah needs a replacement coach and coaching team member.
The team (Sarah, Alina and Paul) discussed possible replacements and agreed that Alina (AR) would become Sarah’s coach. Alina noted that, while she is officially part of AR,  she has been attending EM Leadership meetings for some time due to her engagement in “Four Corners” projects.
Ryan Siats (EM), Allison Pearson (EM) and Shanna Braun (WR) were identified as potential coaching team members.
The team briefly discussed whether Sarah was committed to pursuing the role of PIC given that (i) one of Rachael’s reasons for resigning related to her preference to continue a PM rather than a PIC role and (ii) Andy Polzin’s feedback questioned whether Sarah might harbor similar thoughts. Sarah noted that one of her passions is to grow Barr’s environmental review practice and that she feels that she could pursue this better as a PIC rather than as a PM. In other words, Sarah restated her commitment to pursuing the role of PIC.
Long Form:
Status
Sarah has started populating “Principal VP Evaluation Form.docx” and walked the team through her approach thus far (which has focused on responding to each of the eight criteria by providing an introductory paragraph followed by addressing some or all of the sub-criteria).
Paul reminded Sarah that (i) the expectation is that the response to each criteria is expected to be approximately one page and (ii) the goal is to have a solid draft ready by the end of 2024.
Action Items
Sarah will have a draft available by 10/31/2024 for review by the coaching team to allow for a more detailed discussion in the next coaching meeting scheduled for 11/14/2024.
