FILE: 2025-05-01 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	May 1, 2025
Time: 	09:30 – 10:30 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Allison Pearson (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Kim Alfonsi (EM Officer Process Coordinator)
Status Update
Paul and Kim noted that Sarah is well positioned for nomination in 2026 despite the disappointment of having done well in the 3/12/2025 dialog session and not being nominated in 2025.
Sarah has between now and the end of 2025 to demonstrate progress on development needs and to position herself for nomination in 2026.
The team repeated that a second cycle in the pipeline tends to be a lighter lift than the first cycle (given that Sarah’s long form is in good shape and will only need tweaking, primarily to document progress made).
The coaching team discussed the development needs identified as her nomination was being considered by the EM Facilitator. These were (i) to function as a PIC and grow her internal team to better support her as a PIC, and (ii) to provide strategic thinking and leadership in her area of practice.
Under item 1.4 (i), Sarah feels she is already serving as a PIC but sees more opportunities (e.g., for a solar project in Michigan for which LaurieBeth Nederveld will be PM and Sarah will serve as a pseudo-PIC under Alina Heydt). Sarah also noted two upcoming projects with Xcel where she could serve as a pseudo-PIC under Shanna Braun. Sarah stated that she is sponsoring both of Barr’s two new experienced PMs in her area of practice (Keith Fox and Orry Hatcher). Sarah is also helping Tyler Conley and Veronica Parsell develop as PMs.
Under item 1.4 (ii), Sarah is hoping that Structural Evolution will help define what she needs to take on. She is serving on the Practice Group design team. Sarah is a believer in the One Barr concept but has concerns about other opinions that could lead to a possible silo-ing of folks. She also questioned whether Barr PICs have fully bought into Structural Evolution, based on a couple of town hall meetings she has attended.
Sarah questioned whether she would be penalized if her LFAR reduced because of handing off the PM role to others as she serves in a pseudo-PIC role. The coaching team responded that she would not be penalized and that this provides a good opportunity to demonstrate her progress in item 1.4 (i) above.
Action Items:
Sarah has scheduled coaching meetings every six weeks. The next one will be on 6/12/2025, unless conflicts arise.
Sarah will consider reaching out to make herself better known to the EM officers. Note that, the 11/2024 “pulse survey” results, saved in Sarah’s Feedback folder, reported six officers voting “Yes”, seven claiming “no line of sight”, and five voting “No”. Sarah may ask officers about their take on structural evolution as a topic to discuss, possibly starting with Ryan Siats as the ER PG coordinator.
Paul suggested that Sarah develop a document (docx or xlsx) to track her progress on her development needs. This would include reporting back on projects for which she is acting as a pseudo-PIC under Alina or Shanna, and efforts she has made to help others develop as PMs.
