FILE: 2025-06-12 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	June 12, 2025
Time: 	12:00 – 13:00 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Todd Fasking (EM Facilitator)
Status Update
The coaching team discussed the status of the action items from the previous coaching meeting held on May 1, 2025.
Developing a document (docx or xlsx) to track Sarah’s progress on her development needs. Not done yet. Sarah will reach out to other recently nominated EM PICs (Jennifer, Phil, and Mike) to see what they used and will then decide what approach makes the most sense to her.
Reaching out to other EM officers to make herself and her work better known to them. Not done yet. Note that, the 11/2024 “pulse survey” results, saved in Sarah’s Feedback folder, reported six officers voting “Yes”, seven claiming “no line of sight”, and five voting “No”.
Serving in a PIC-like role and developing PMs and her internal teams to better support her as a PIC. Sarah noted that she is working alongside Alina Heydt and helping to develop LaurieBeth Nederveld as the PM for a solar project for AES in Michigan. Sarah is also trying to help Aaron Mielke be a client manager for Xcel, and to support Anna Kadrie in her onsite role at Xcel. Sarah described a number of upcoming opportunities at Xcel related to transmission lines and fire protection.
Working with new environmental review senior hires (Orry Hatcher and Keith Fox). Sarah noted that she will be a sponsor for Keith when he starts at Barr.
Providing strategic thinking and leadership in her area of practice. Sarah reported on an hour-long conversation she had with Ryan Siats (ER PG coordinator) recently, discussing a possible pilot case to test Practice Area roles under Structural Evolution. Sarah has also been considering the use of AI in the environmental review practice area.
The team discussed whether any additional feedback should be sought this cycle. Paul noted that this could include staff who were not interviewed last cycle, or staff with whom Sarah has been working more in the last year. Erik Boleman was mentioned because Sarah is working with him for the first time this year (on a project for Louisiana Pacific). Sarah suggested conducting a Focus Feedback instead.
Action Items:
Sarah will continue (and document) her efforts described in items 1.1.1 through 1.1.5, above.
The next coaching meeting will be on 7/29/2025, unless conflicts arise.
