FILE: 2025-07-29 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	July 29, 2025
Time: 	10:00 – 10:42 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Allison Pearson (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Kim Alfonsi (EM OPC), Todd Fasking (EM Facilitator)
Status Update
Sarah walked the coaching team through the status of the action items from the previous coaching meeting held on June 12, 2025:
Sarah has developed a document (“Devp Area tracking.docx”) to track progress on her development needs, covering items 1.1.2 to 1.1.5 below.
Serving in a PIC-like role and developing PMs and her internal teams to better support her as a PIC. Sarah noted that she is working alongside Alina Heydt and helping to develop LaurieBeth Nederveld as the PM for the AES Sylvan solar project in Michigan. Sarah is also trying to help Aaron Mielke be a client manager for Xcel and to support Anna Kadrie in her on-site role at Xcel.
Working with new environmental review senior hires (Orry Hatcher and Keith Fox). Sarah noted that Orry is hitting the ground running. She has begun sponsoring Keith after he joined Barr recently and is trying to figure out how best to support him in taking on PM roles.
Providing strategic thinking and leadership in her area of practice. Sarah reported on her outreach to Structural Evolution leaders (Sara Gaffin and Eric Blodgett) regarding the possibility of a new PG for cultural resources within the environmental review practice area. Todd clarified that the role of Practice Area Lead (PAL) is in flux and may not require VP status. Sarah also reported on the strategic leadership she is providing to a confidential OSB manufacturing company that is trying to decide where to locate a new facility.
Sarah reported that she has reached out to schedule meetings with eight other EM officers to make herself and her work better known to them. This includes five of the seven claiming “no line of sight”, and three of the five voting “No” in the 11/2024 “pulse survey”. Sarah does not intend to prioritize the six officers voting “Yes”, officers on her coaching team, officers she has already reached out to, or officers no longer at Barr.
Additional Feedback:
Sarah reported that she had held Focus Feedback meetings with Erik Boleman (on 7/15/2025) and Tyler Conley (on 7/22/2025) because of her engagement with them on a project for Louisiana Pacific. Sarah played a pseudo-PIC role alongside Erik. While she was technically assigned as the PM for the project, Grace Ricker, Tyler Conley, and Mark Jacobsen were Job PMs for air, environmental review, and wetlands, respectively. Following an initial round of deliverables, the project is expected to continue with this same team. Main takeaways included (i) this was a messy project with a lot of ambiguity, (ii) when the client backed away from a full scope to a go/no go decision, Sarah was able to redirect the effort accordingly (Erik appreciated Sarah diverting from a full wetland delineation report to just using data sheets instead to save budget), (iii) adapting to team members’ communication preferences (Tyler appreciated Sarah developing an initial outline for the deliverable but expressed a preference for coming up with this himself).
The team discussed whether any additional feedback should be sought this cycle. Sarah will give this some thought and let Paul know.
Kim explained (and Todd confirmed) that Structural Evolution is unlikely to impact candidacies that go to nomination in Spring 2026.
Action Items:
Sarah will continue (and document) her efforts described in items 1.1.2 through 1.1.5, above.
The next coaching meeting will be on 9/4/2025, unless conflicts arise.
