FILE: 2025-09-04 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	September 4, 2025
Time: 	09:30 – 10:00 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Allison Pearson (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach)
Status Update
Sarah briefed the coaching team on the status of her progress on her development needs, as documented in Devp Area tracking.docx:
Development Area 1: “Function as a PIC and grow my internal team to better support me as a PIC in the future.”
Development Area 2: “Provide strategic thinking and leadership in my area of practice.”
Outreach to eight EM officers to make Sarah and her work better known to them. This includes five of the seven claiming “no line of sight”, and three of the five voting “No” in the 11/2024 “pulse survey”. There was no need to meet with those officers on her coaching team, officers she has already reached out to, or officers no longer at Barr.
Additional Feedback:
The team decided that Allison will conduct a feedback interview with Orry Hatcher, given that Sarah has been working with him since he joined Barr in May  2025.
Paul confirmed that our goal should be to finalize updates to the long form by the end of 2025, using the next two meetings (scheduled for 10/16 and 12/4) as check-in points. Paul reminded the team that the responses to each of the eight criteria should be limited to one page, if possible.
Action Items:
Sarah will continue her efforts to demonstrate (and document in Devp Area tracking.docx) progress on the two development areas described in items 1.1.1 and  1.1.2, above. She will also refine the notes from her calls with the eight EM officers described in item 1.1.3 above.
Allison will schedule a feedback interview with Orry Hatcher for either the last week in September or the first week in October. The interview notes should be entered in Feedback Collected (SLJ2).docx.
Sarah will start making edits to her long form (with tracked changes) before the next coaching meeting on 10/16.
