FILE: 2025-03-06 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	March 6, 2025
Time: 	15:00 – 15:30 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Allison Pearson (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Kim Alfonsi (EM Officer Process Coordinator)
Status Update
The purpose of this meeting was to prepare for Sarah’s dialog session which has been set for Wednesday March 12, 2025 at 3:00 pm in the Birch conference room (which is behind reception on the 2nd floor).
Paul noted that EM officers are required attendees, with the management team and Board being optional. Sarah will attend in person (as will Paul and several others) while others will participate remotely. Everyone will bring their laptop and dial into the Teams call.
Kim will kick off the dialog session, followed by a few words from Todd. Alina will spend 5 to 10 minutes introducing Sarah using the PowerPoint presentation. Then the floor will be opened to questions.
The team noted the following as possible areas for discussion during the dialog session:
Why Sarah wants to become a PIC.
What clients/projects Sarah would likely become PIC for.
Why she left Barr briefly in 2020-2021.
Whether any of the eight criteria in the long form adequately discusses the two perceptions mentioned under the “Development Efforts” section (which currently states “Sarah and her coaching team do not view these as development areas. Supporting information for not considering these development areas are provided throughout the long form.”)
Paul suggested that Sarah remember to thank the attendees for their engagement and interest at the start of her responses.
The coaching team recommended that Sarah be familiar with her long form so that she is ready to respond to any questions relating to it.
The coaching team recommended that Sarah “be herself” during the dialog session and to remember that it is not a hostile environment; the EM officers are well aware of Sarah’s candidacy, but that she should treat it as similar to a job interview.
Kim and Paul noted that, following the dialog session, each EM officer will complete the “Principal VP Rating Summary form.docx” and vote to either nominate or withhold nomination. The results will be summarized and discussed at a subsequent meeting of the EM officers and then Todd Fasking will make the final decision regarding Sarah’s nomination.
Kim and Paul also discussed the Nominating Committee’s draft memo as it pertains to Sarah’s candidacy but noted that it doesn’t include any specific recommendations for Sarah.
Action Items:
Sarah will go through and re-familiarize herself with her long form.
Sarah will tweak the long form to explain that LFAR associated with Avangrid is listed in the LFAR tables under “Elm Creek Wind II LLC”.
Paul will update the PowerPoint presentation to include recent meetings on the first slide and adding a final slide documenting the Nominating Committee's recommendation to nominate. [Done 3/6/2025]
Kim will prepare a pdf comprising the PowerPoint presentation and the long form and distribute it to the dialog session invitees by 3/9/2025.
