FILE: 2025-10-20 Meeting (SLJ2).docx

PIC Development Progress Meeting
Date: 	October 20, 2025
Time: 	09:30 – 10:06 CT
Location: 	Teams Meeting
Project: 	EM040300.25 TD 500
Attendees:	Sarah Johnson (candidate), Alina Heydt (coach and coaching committee member), Allison Pearson (coaching committee member), Paul Taylor (EM leadership coach), Kim Alfonsi (EM OPC)
Status Update
Sarah briefed the coaching team on the status of her progress on her development needs, as documented in Devp Area tracking.docx:
Development Area 1: “Function as a PIC and grow my internal team to better support me as a PIC in the future.” Sarah is helping coachee Anna Kadrie transition to the PM role on some Shanna Braun/Mark Mielke projects for Xcel Energy.
Development Area 2: “Provide strategic thinking and leadership in my area of practice.” Despite a confidential project in northern MN not proceeding, the client complimented Sarah on her role in the proposal phase. Sarah is also helping Charlie Eckers in his marketing and staffing of ImOn. Sarah also reported that she has been working on several proposals, including a successful one for Minnesota Power.
Sarah refined the notes from her calls with eight EM officers described in item 1.1.3 of the 9/4/2025 coaching meeting notes. Sarah reported that her presence at a conference prevented her from attending much of EM Training Week, so only minor additional contacts with EM officers have been made.
Additional Feedback:
Allison reported on the positive feedback she obtained from Orry Hatcher (documented in “Feedback Collected (SLJ2).docx”). Orry has chosen Sarah to be his coach, partly because he feels Sarah provides honest and timely feedback.
Allison volunteered to solicit feedback from Keith Fox regarding Sarah’s involvement in his on-boarding.
Long Form. Sarah had several questions for the coaching team:
Is 25% reasonable for the extent of changes to the long form? Yes, but the Development Efforts section ahead of the eight criteria is where most edits would be expected. Paul also noted that previous versions of the long form have been saved to the Superseded folder and that any edits Sarah makes should be identified as tracked changes to facilitate review by the coaching team.
Should the long form focus more on 2025 events? Not necessarily. The long form reflects the history of the candidate’s work at Barr, although recent examples are more relevant for demonstrating progress on the identified development needs.
Should the “perceived development areas” (“chasing shiny objects” and “developing long-term clients”) be retained or can they be deleted as resolved? The team suggested retaining until the next draft of the long form is available for review.
What emphasis is placed on the scoring of each criteria? The scoring can be revisited, but As and Bs are not going to raise questions (unless a specific criterion has all As).
Should an older variance be replaced with a future variance that Sarah is anticipating (~$5 to 8k)? The team suggested that any variances will be noted in the LFAR table and could be addressed there with a footnote, since they are below the significant threshold of $10k.
Does Sarah’s Development Area 1 best belong in Criterion #A4 (“Helps develop talent and helps colleagues reach full potential”)? The coaching team agreed that this seems to be the most appropriate spot for discussing developing PMs, more so than Criterion #P4 (“Contributes to strengthening and building our business by leveraging staff to obtain and deliver projects”).
Does Sarah’s Development Area 2 best belong in Criterion #A3 (“strategic thinking and leadership in area of practice”)? The coaching team agreed that this seems to be the most appropriate spot.
Should the numerous examples of contracting experience under Criterion #P1 be culled to attain the one page “limit”? The coaching team noted that the size limit is being pushed by the fact that Sarah has numerous examples but that these do not impose a significant burden on the reader. We can revisit once the long form is nearer to completion.
Action Items:
Sarah will continue her efforts to demonstrate (and document in Devp Area tracking.docx) progress on the two development areas described in items 1.1.1 and 1.1.2, above.
Allison will schedule a feedback interview with Keith Fox, most likely as part of his 5-month check-in meeting. The interview notes should be entered in Feedback Collected (SLJ2).docx.
Sarah will edit her long form (with tracked changes) such that it will be available for review by the coaching team by 11/4/2025. This coincides with the 11/7-21/2025 window for the EM officers to respond to the annual pulse survey on the PIC candidates. The results of the pulse survey and the status of the long form will be discussed in the next coaching meeting, scheduled for 12/4/2025.
