FILE: Compare EM PIC Surveys (SLJ2).xlsx

---- SHEET: Survey Results ----
	2024-05-01 00:00:00			2024-11-01 00:00:00		2025-11-01 00:00:00
	Would you nominate Sarah into the pipeline in 2024?	What is your rationale for supporting or not supporting Sarah's entry to the pipeline?	Provide at least one development need for Sarah	Would you support the nomination of Sarah as an officer in 2025?	Please provide additional information if you indicated "No" or have anything else to share regarding your view on Sarah's 2025 potential nomination:	Would you support the nomination of Sarah as an officer in 2026?	Please provide additional information if you indicated "No" or have anything else to share regarding your view on Sarah's 2025 potential nomination:
AAW	Yes	Vote is a combination of need & readiness. Sarah can wear multiple hats across PGs and is willing to work in various geographies. From my limited experience, Sarah has a mindset consistent with our "business builders", provides great client service, has good BD experience, and actively coaches & mentors. She is also well leveraged on her projects.	from my limited point of view, I would be interested in hearing more about any long-term client relationships she's built, would like to hear more about how she's supported integration w/ Ecosphere, and how she addresses risk.  Due to my limited view it's unclear if these are development items or if I just need to be informed.	No line of sight	Have not dug into details on Sarah and do not work with her.	Yes	great PM; leader in her practice
ACD	Yes	Have witnessed Sarah as an effective leader, connecting people to opportunities, representing Barr well for clients/opportunities.	I do not have any directly, but would continue to seek the input of a coaching team to determine needed development	No	Activities and progress speak to things she will be doing rather than has done. Upon successful completion, should be ready.	Yes	She has provided numerous examples of progress towards the development items identified in the last cycle.
ALO2	Yes	Sarah is hands down the top choice for me.  Her technical performance and PM skills have been strong for years.  She has taken on increased company roles while maintaining a strong workload.  She is looked at by team members and peers and a leader/go-to source for help with especially difficult projects/clients/issues.	Look for opportunities to continue supporting Four Corners staff or entry level staff.	Yes		Yes	Long form was complete and compelling
AMS	No line of sight			No response		Yes	I haven't worked with her directly on projects, but Sarah has thoughtful contributions in group meetings, such as planning discussions and EM Duluth huddles. I supported her last year because she exhibits leadership qualities.
ARM3	Maybe	She supports a large book of business, and seems to have a lot of support in the officer cohort.	It would be great to see her demonstrate longer term team and client relationships.	No line of sight	I look forward to seeing her pipeline materials.	Yes	I think she was likely ready this year, and based on the development log she has kept she has made strides in exploring the PIC role this year
BMR	Maybe	I still need to know more about Sarah before it can make a decision	TBD	No	My answer is dependent on review of her long form and her coaching team recommendatation	Yes	Based on what I am hearing she is ready to move forward.  I still need to read her long form again
BPG	No line of sight			No line of sight	No real experience with Sarah since her time as EM Annual Planning Coordinator. Would like to hear more about her development goals and progress, as her written materials on the candidate page seem limited.	Yes	Sarah was a good candidate in the past cycle. It seems that she has continued to take on more responsibility and act as a PIC in her project and overhead efforts. Excellent technical skillsets and has taken on more leadership roles.
CDM
CPT	Yes	Strong project/technical leadership. Cross-BU collaboration. Coaching. Business building mentality.	Increase project line of sight with EM PICs.	Yes		Yes	Long form demonstrates meeting criteria, good progress relative to development goals, coaching team supports.
ELB	Maybe	I have not worked closely with Sarah in the past few years so I have limited line of site. I don't know who are her major clients or who is on her project teams. But what I do know about Sarah is that she loves digging into details. She likes developing new things.	Unsure	No line of sight	I know Sarah and appreciate the work she does, but I don't know much about her PIC development progress	Yes	I worked with Sarah on a big project this year and saw, first hand, her leadership and ability. I believe she is ready.
JAT	Yes	Very strong project management and communication skills. Good network of team members that respect her.	I do not have one in mind off-hand. I would like Rachael's POV on this.	Yes	It will be easy to compare to Rachael S's situation, whatever that was, to make sure Sarah does not bolt a second time, but we need to understand head-on if there is relevancy in what happened with Rachel and also why Sarah left the first time. Otherwise, I think she has demonstrated the skills to succeed as a PIC.	Yes	I have not worked much with Sarah this year, but my interactions with her directly and for clients has demonstrated genuine care and professional service. I look forward to her balancing her conservative style on decisions and strategy with practical solution development and implementation.
JDB	No line of sight			No line of sight		No response
JMH3						Yes	Sarah and I have interacted frequently for most of her Barr career. She is a strong leader within our environmental review practice, who is very knowledgeable and highly effective at leading projects and who also invests significantly in mentoring team members. I've directly observed her strategic thinking on both projects and multiple internal initiatives. We've also had multiple specific conversations related to the pipeline process and the principal role, from which I feel very comfortable with supporting her nomination.
JPB	No line of sight
KAA2	No line of sight			No	I think Sarah is making good progress on identifying development needs but will need some additional time over 2025 to work on risk management skills with her coaching team and document strong examples throughout the upcoming year.	Yes	I believe Sarah meets all officer readiness criteria and has embraced working with Alina and Shanna in a PIC-like role over the last year.  She has stepped up to thinking more strategically for her practice, particularly with upcoming changes in structural evolution. She continues to develop client relationships and build/mentor her team.
KEH
MJN						No line of sight	Would like to have a conversation with her or other officers that know her.
NBN	Yes	Sarah is meeting many/most of the officer criteria and has been a strong PM, business developer and technical leader with teams.	Others have noted this, but the main challenge for Sarah appears to be her long-term engagement in areas. This could potentially be managed if she has partners to bring along with hand-offs over time.	Yes	I would support the coaching team's recommendation I - want to make sure she is pursuing the path that makes sense for her as she has had an interest in BD and PIC.
PJF2						Yes	While I have not had direct experience working with her on project work, my understanding is that she is continuing step up as a leader in the Env Review practice area by working collaboratively with Shanna on staff development, project execution, and business development. I have not heard or seen anything that would give me pause regarding whether she is ready.
RAS	Yes	o Strategic thinker with vision for area of practice  o Effectively executes projects and manages clients with little support  o Actively engaged in building skillsets of colleagues   o Successfully develops business and pursues new clients/projects with measured risks  o Collaborates across BUs and offices very effectively  o Strong communication skills	Continuing to expand risk management/contracting experience
RCH2
RDS	No line of sight			No	Work on development needs for contracting and risk management, risk with complex projects, follow through	Yes	Sarah has further progressed and practiced around her development needs, acting more as a PIC on opps/projects, not jumping in to solve the problem but coaching the team and letting them work through.
RPT	No line of sight			No	Sarah is close but I think a second cycle in the pipeline is appropriate.	Yes	Sarah is a high-performing PM who shows initiative in recognizing and pursuing opportunities with new and existing clients.  She has responded well to feedback throughout the PIC pipeline process and has demonstrated (and documented) progress on her development needs (functioning as a PIC and growing her PMs/teams, and providing strategic thinking and leadership in her area of practice). She has worked diligently to prepare a comprehensive "long form" that demonstrates how she satisfies all eight PIC criteria. I'm confident that she will make a great EM PIC.
SES2	Maybe	Sarah is a very strong PM. Strategic thinker.	demonstrate some long-term commitment	No response		Yes
TAK	No line of sight			No line of sight		Yes	Solid technical history gaining trust of clients. Gracefully recovering from errors with clients to their satisfaction and implementation of improvement to prevent re-occurances.  Acting as PIC in some cases. Delegation evident by her hours worked on her “PM” projects.  Significant book of business. Involvement with internal functions/needs. Her conduct and demeanor satisfy any concerns about Barr loyalty
TLK2	Maybe	It has been a couple of years since Sarah and I spoke about either BD or PIC officer role. She seems to fit both roles, but may be a better fit for BD with the need to continue to try new projects/clients.	Determine what pipeline she would like to pursue.	No line of sight
TMF	No	from strat plan “We aim to build loyal relationships with clients who value our approach to consulting and consider us trusted advisors. Build, sustain, and expand relationships among Barr staff and clients”  Sustain relationships with clients – sustain and build client contacts – otherwise tech or bd track		Yes	close call  - not sure how she has totally addressed all development needs.	Yes	She has continued to demonstrate commitment to Barr's strategy around repeat clients/business
TMR	No	I do not have a good grasp on what Sarah is doing and how it is contributing to our success.  I am skeptical about Sarah's readiness.  I know very little, but do know that Sarah left and returned to Barr, which is fine.  However, upon return I remember Sarah having interest in the BD officer role.  If that is true, what has changed?  I do appreciate Sarah's leadership in continued efforts to support and strengthen our environmental review practice.  That leadership might speak to readiness and may be needed, but I need to learn more.		Yes		Yes	I admire Sarah's leadership in important markets and the demonstrated ability to turn opportunities with new and existing clients into interesting projects.  Sarah has also demonstrated the ability to build and support strong teams across disciplines as needed for the succeful execution of complex projects. I am willing to trust the recommendation of the coaching team and colleagues that have a more direct line of site or experience working with Sarah.
						Improvement in position, Nov-2024 to Nov-2025
						Worsening of position, Nov-2024 to Nov-2025
	Yes	7		Yes	6	Yes	19
	No	2		No	5	No	0
	Maybe	5		Maybe	Not an option	Maybe	0
	No line of sight	8		No line of sight	7	No line of sight	1
	No response	0		No response	2	No response	1
		6			8		7
	Total	28		Total	28	Total	28
