FILE: Focus feedback from Tyler Conley.pdf

---- PAGE 1 ----
View EventGive Feedback: Sarah Johnson (11484)
For
Overall Process
Overall StatusSuccessfully Completed
Sarah Johnson (11484)
Get Feedback: Sarah Johnson (11484)
From Sarah Johnson
About
D e t a i l s P r o c e s s 
Sarah Johnson (11484)
Question
Feedback07/22/2025
Date of Focus Feedback Conversation 
Question
Feedback
For ease in referencing this feedback conversation later, please enter the name of the person who will be in‐
volved in your focus feedback conversation.  
Tyler Conley
Question
Feedback
Please indicate the context in which you worked with your Focus Feedback partner.
This person worked for me.
QuestionIntroduction: Thank your partner for taking the time to talk, lead the conversation using the guide below, and 
take notes. 
What topic(s) will you be discussing with your focus feedback partner?
Set the stage by making sure your partner knows this, too. Conversations tend to be more effective when the 
topic is well-deﬁned and not too broad.
MENU 
 Sear ch 
4 5

---- PAGE 2 ----
FeedbackRelevant background info:
My current area of focus in my career is to “function as a PIC and grow my internal team to better support me as 
a (potential) PIC in the future. And also, I thought you would be a good person to ask for feedback on this both because we’ve worked together recently, but also because some of your recent feedback on me has suggested 
maybe level of detail is something I could get better at. Speciﬁcally,
In 2023 you said: Tyler appreciates my email communications with the detail, sometimes they can be less wordy 
and higher level with bullets. Tyler defaults back on my emails when needed. A potential overused strength could be recognizing people for certain strengths but discounting their potential in other areas, or allowing for the pos‐
sibility that people can and do change.
In 2024 you said: Sometimes I can over communicate, mentioned her long emails and that it may be more infor‐
mation than people need (he said this may be his personal preference).  It is necessary, but not always, so trying to ﬁgure out when she needs to have detailed communication and when she doesn’t. And also that I get “tunnel 
vision” and will hyper focus one speciﬁc item which can keep her from getting other things done. Could step 
back and ask “does it matter” or “do we need to go this deep”
Question
Feedback
What do you like best about working with me?
Probe for comments around effectiveness in role and/or quality of work product, along with satisfaction in the 
experience working together. Possible follow-up questions might include:
What should I be sure to keep doing in your opinion?
What’s different about working with me in a way that you appreciate?What do you think I should watch for that might become an overused strength?
Before moving on: anything else?
Tyler likes Sarah's communication style, and appreciates that she's willing to dig into things when it needs to be. 
Appreciates that she always understands the task that we're working on. Sometimes others just tell Tyler to do things but our working relationship is more collaborative. Sarah's good at project management in general.
Question
Feedback
What are one or two things I could do to make it an even better experience working with me?
Probe for comments around effectiveness in role and/or quality of work product, along with satisfaction in the 
experience working together. Possible follow-up questions might include: 
What would you like to see me do more or less of?
What’s different about working with me that sometimes makes it more difﬁcult?
What do you see as the area that would make the biggest impact if further developed?
Before moving on: anything else?
Keep Tyler in the loop better on the client side of things with LP. For this project, it was confusing and there were 
a couple meetings where Sarah or Erik had talked to LP about things that maybe Tyler wasn't aware of.
QuestionI want to get better at ‘X’. Do you have any suggestions?
Be sure to acknowledge what “X” is in your notes.

---- PAGE 3 ----
Feedback Do you have any feedback on how my approach to the level of detail in communications and ability 
to drive bigger picture/strategy has gotten any better or worse?
Did you feel like you received an appropriate level of support and freedom on the LP project?
For this LP project, Tyler was looking back on our email communications and he still goes back and refers to the 
emails I send. The PM overview mtg notes was helpful, and he saved it - but it is also an example of one that has 
a lot of information in it. He said others could perceive it as too much. But for him, it was helpful. He likes the 
bullets. He doesn't like emails with a lot of paragraphs.
And also for the LP project, the main thing we were working on was the permitting and strategy memo. Tyler felt 
like he kept putting it off because he didn't know what we were doing. He assumed I was ﬁguring that out. And 
then we just ended up writing it mostly in a day. That helped to have a deadline and just be done with it. The ﬁrst 
outline threw him for a loop. Tyler thinks for him, he would do better from a blank slate. But he thinks me doing an outline ﬁrst confused him more.
Perhaps interim deadlines for Tyler would be better than trying to give him a starting point.
Question
Feedback
Is there anything else you would like to comment on?
Closing: Thank your partner for taking the time to talk, express an openness to RTF in the future (ideally the 
conversation can continue informally, and that the doors can be open both ways for continued communica‐tion), and submit your notes within one week.
Sarah and Tyler both said they enjoy working with one another.
