FILE: Focus feedback from Erik Boleman.pdf

---- PAGE 1 ----
View EventGive Feedback: Sarah Johnson (11484)
For
Overall Process
Overall StatusSuccessfully Completed
Sarah Johnson (11484)
Get Feedback: Sarah Johnson (11484)
From Sarah Johnson
About
D e t a i l s P r o c e s s 
Sarah Johnson (11484)
Question
Feedback07/15/2025
Date of Focus Feedback Conversation 
Question
Feedback
For ease in referencing this feedback conversation later, please enter the name of the person who will be in‐
volved in your focus feedback conversation.  
Erik Boleman
Question
Feedback
Please indicate the context in which you worked with your Focus Feedback partner.
I performed work for this person.
Question
Feedback
Introduction: Thank your partner for taking the time to talk, lead the conversation using the guide below, and 
take notes. 
What topic(s) will you be discussing with your focus feedback partner?
Set the stage by making sure your partner knows this, too. Conversations tend to be more effective when the 
topic is well-deﬁned and not too broad.
For some color ahead of time, I’d like to provide you with the background information that my current area of fo‐
cus / development area is to:“(i) to function as a PIC and grow her internal team to better support her as a PIC, and (ii) to provide strategic 
thinking and leadership in her area of practice”
And I know you and I talked at the outset of this ﬁrst phase of the LP project and I explained to you that I was 
willing to PM the project in part as an opportunity to continue to sharpen my skills around provided higher-level “strategic” direction, and less in-the-weeds-involvement.
MENU 
 Sear ch 
4 5

---- PAGE 2 ----
Question
Feedback
What do you like best about working with me?
Probe for comments around effectiveness in role and/or quality of work product, along with satisfaction in the 
experience working together. Possible follow-up questions might include:
What should I be sure to keep doing in your opinion?
What’s different about working with me in a way that you appreciate?
What do you think I should watch for that might become an overused strength?
Before moving on: anything else?
Erik recalls an email Sarah sent when he was away at a cabin - and Sarah said "stop ... I got this." He appreciated 
that and that Sarah had the ball but also was good at communicating on status with him. He wants to know 
what's going on so he doesn't run into any issues of he doesn't know what he doesn't know.
Question
Feedback
What are one or two things I could do to make it an even better experience working with me?
Probe for comments around effectiveness in role and/or quality of work product, along with satisfaction in the 
experience working together. Possible follow-up questions might include: 
What would you like to see me do more or less of?
What’s different about working with me that sometimes makes it more difﬁcult?What do you see as the area that would make the biggest impact if further developed?
Before moving on: anything else?
Erik really hopes the LP project is a go and there is more predictability in the project schedule. So he has nothing 
better on this. We were always under pressure and we always delivered. Kept the client informed in an appropri‐ate manner.
Question
Feedback
I want to get better at ‘X’. Do you have any suggestions?
Be sure to acknowledge what “X” is in your notes.
I want to get better at growing my internal team (in large part folks like Tyler but that also inherently extends out to other SMEs too) and operating at a more strategic level on projects. Do you have any suggestions?
Erik said LP was a very unique project. Erik also didn't want to jump into the weeds too, but when it's moving fast 
- it's difﬁcult to not jump in because there's not enough time to course correct otherwise. Erik felt like Sarah did 
great in her role w/LP.
For the strategic part and leadership, spot on. For example, Sarah started the deliverable document to streamline the process and said this is what we're populating. Be direct with that.
Erik wasn't in the technical meetings so not sure that Sarah wasn't diving too far into the weeds there, but Tyler 
did a great job when Sarah was out.
For this project, Sarah was acting like a PIC but Erik also was. But he feels like there wasn't an option otherwise 
because of schedule.
Erik liked how Sarah interacted with Grace and Jenni. It was direct which was needed because we didn't have 
time. One of the team member's was potentially a little lost at times and Sarah was good at telling her what the 
client wants, stay on task, etc. even though it wasn't Sarah's area of expertise.
For what to get better on - this was a good example of strategic thinking part. This should end up in Sarah's write up. Whether it's doing the delineation but saving on the report to save budget. But make sure they had the map in 
front of them. Schedule was stellar. For the client to have something to make strategic decision on and having 
something to inform that. Working around not having Mark Jacobson not available was nimble. Able to shift. 
Staying on top of the wetlands stuff was great.
To get better at:More interactions with people like Tyler. So keep doing what I did with Tyler. The work product was great when it 
got to Erik.

---- PAGE 3 ----
Question
Feedback
Is there anything else you would like to comment on?
Closing: Thank your partner for taking the time to talk, express an openness to RTF in the future (ideally the 
conversation can continue informally, and that the doors can be open both ways for continued communica‐tion), and submit your notes within one week.
Nothing additional
