WAC 173-401-300  
Applicability.  
(1) Chapter 401 sources. The provisions of this chapter apply in all areas of the state of
Washington to the following sources: (a) Any source required by the FCAA to have an operating
permit. These include the following sources: (i) Any major source as defined in WAC 173-401-200(18). (ii) Any source, including an area source, subject to a
standard, limitation, or other requirement under section 111
(Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources) of the
FCAA. A small municipal waste combustion unit constructed on or
before August 30, 1999, and regulated under WAC 173-400-050(5)
becomes subject to this chapter on July 1, 2002. (iii) Any source, including an area source, subject to a
standard or other requirement under section 112 of the FCAA,
except that a source is not required to obtain a permit solely
because it is subject to regulations or requirements under
section 112(r) (Prevention of Accidental Releases) of the FCAA. (iv) Any solid waste incineration units required to obtain
permits under section 129 of the FCAA. A commercial and industrial solid waste incineration unit
constructed on or before November 30, 1999, and regulated under
WAC 173-400-050(4) becomes subject to this chapter on July 1,
2002. (v) Any "affected source" regulated under Title IV (Acid
Deposition Control) of the FCAA. (vi) Any source in a source category designated by the EPA
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 70, as amended through April 7, 1993. (b) Any source that the permitting authority determines may
cause or contribute to air pollution in such quantity as to
create a threat to the public health or welfare under RCW 70.94.161(4) using the procedures in subsection (5) of this
section. (c) Any other source which chooses to apply for a permit. (d) Deferral. A source subject to the secondary aluminum
production requirements in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart RRR (in effect
on July 1, 2000) that is not a major source and is not located at
a major source as defined under 40 CFR 63.2 and is not otherwise
required to obtain a chapter 401 permit is deferred from chapter 173-401 WAC until December 4, 2004. This category includes sweat
furnaces, aluminum scrap shredders, thermal chip dryers, scrap
dryers/delacquering kilns/decoating kilns, group 2 furnaces
(processing clean charge only and no reactive fluxing),
dross-only furnaces, and rotary dross coolers. (e) A municipal solid waste landfill constructed,
reconstructed or modified before May 30, 1991, and regulated
under WAC 173-400-070(9) becomes subject to this chapter on
September 20, 2001.

Note:
Under 40 CFR 62.14352(e) (in effect on July 1, 2000), an affected landfill must have submitted its chapter 401 application
so that by April 6, 2001, the permitting agency was able to determine that it was timely and complete. Under 40 CFR
70.7(b), an affected source may not operate if it has not submitted a timely and complete application.

 (2) Source category exemptions. (a) All sources listed in subsection (1)(a) of this section
that are not major sources, affected sources, or solid waste
incineration units required to obtain a permit pursuant to
section 129(e) of the FCAA, are exempted from the obligation to
obtain a chapter 401 permit until such time that: (i) Ecology completes a rulemaking to determine whether
nonmajor sources should be required to obtain permits. During
this rulemaking, ecology will consider the compliance information
contained in individual permit applications when evaluating the
regulatory effectiveness and administrative feasibility of
issuing operating permits to nonmajor sources relative to other
regulatory options. This rulemaking must be completed no later
than three years after the effective date of the permit program;
or (ii) The administrator completes a rulemaking to determine
how the program should be structured for nonmajor sources and
determines that such sources must obtain operating permits and
ecology completes a rule making to adopt EPS's revised
applicability criteria. (b) Subsection (2)(a) of this section shall not apply to
nonmajor sources subject to a standard or other requirement
established under either section 111 or section 112 of the FCAA
after July 21, 1992, if, during those rulemakings, the
administrator determines that such sources must obtain a permit
at an earlier date and, subsequently, ecology completes a rule
making to adopt EPS's applicability criteria. (c) Any source listed in (a) of this subsection exempt from
the requirement to obtain a permit under this section may opt to
apply for a permit under this chapter. (d) The following source categories are exempt from the
obligation to obtain permit: (i) All sources and source categories that would be required
to obtain a permit solely because they are subject to 40 CFR part
60, Subpart AAA - Standards of Performance for New Residential
Wood Heaters; and (ii) All sources and source categories that would be
required to obtain a permit solely because they are subject to
part 61, Subpart M - National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air
Pollutants for Asbestos, section 6l.145, Standard for Demolition and
Renovation. (3) Emissions units and chapter 401 sources. The permitting authority shall include in the permit all
applicable requirements for all relevant emissions units in the
source. (4) Fugitive emissions. Fugitive emissions from a chapter
401 source shall be included in the permit application and the
permit in the same manner as stack emissions, regardless of
whether the source category in question is included in the list
of sources contained in the definition of major source. (5) Process for determining threat to public health or
welfare. The following criteria shall be used to identify
sources that are covered pursuant to subsection (1)(b) of this
section: (a) The source may cause or to contribute air pollution in
such quantity as to create a violation of any ambient air
quality standard as demonstrated by a dispersion modeling
analysis performed in accordance with EPA's dispersion modeling
guidelines, monitoring, or other appropriate methods; or (b) The source may cause or contribute to air pollution in
such quantity as to create a significant ambient level of any
class A or class B toxic air pollutant contained in chapter 173-460 WAC as demonstrated by a dispersion modeling analysis
done in accordance with EPA's dispersion modeling guidelines,
monitoring, or other appropriate methods. (c) Small business stationary sources otherwise covered
under (a) and (b) of this subsection are exempt except when all
of the following requirements are satisfied: (i) The source is in an area that currently exceeds or has
been projected by ecology to exceed within five years any federal
or state air quality standard. Prior to determining that any
area threatens to exceed a standard, ecology shall hold a public
hearing or hearings within the threatened area. (ii) Ecology provides justification that requiring a source
to have a permit is necessary to meet or to prevent exceeding a
federal or state air quality standard. (6) Permitting authorities shall develop and maintain a list
of names of chapter 401 sources within their jurisdictions. This
list shall be made available to the public. A chapter 401 source
inadvertently omitted from this list is not exempted from the
requirement to obtain a permit under this chapter. (7) Federally enforceable limits. Any source which is
defined as a chapter 401 source solely because its potential to
emit exceeds the annual tonnage thresholds defined in WAC 173-401-200(18) shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain an
operating permit when federally enforceable conditions which
limit that source's potential to emit to levels below the
relevant tonnage thresholds have been established for that
source. (a) In applying for an exemption under this subsection, the
owner or operator of the source shall demonstrate to the
permitting authority that the source's potential to emit, taking
into account any federally enforceable restrictions assumed by
the source, does not exceed the tonnage thresholds defined in WAC 173-401-200(18). Such demonstrations shall be in accordance with
WAC 173-401-520 and shall contain emissions measurement and
monitoring data, location of monitoring records, and other
information necessary to support the source's emission
calculations. (b) Permitting authorities may use the following approaches
to establish federally enforceable limitations: (i) Regulatory orders. The permitting authority may
establish source-specific conditions in a regulatory order issued
pursuant to WAC 173-400-090. (ii) Notice of construction approvals. The permitting
authority may establish source-specific conditions in a notice of
construction approval issued pursuant to state or local
regulations contained in an EPA-approved state implementation
plan; or (iii) General permits. The permitting authority may
establish source-category requirements which limit a source's
potential to emit through a general permit issued pursuant to RCW 70.94.161(11). Following EPA approval of the general permit,
limitations on potential to emit become federally enforceable
against a particular source after that source applies for, and
receives coverage under the general permit. (c) A source receiving a federally enforceable limit on its
potential to emit shall annually certify that its potential to
emit is less than that which would require the source to obtain
an operating permit. Such certifications shall contain the
information specified in (a) of this subsection. (d) Notice of issuance of any order or permit which limits a
source's potential to emit shall be published in the permit
register pursuant to WAC 173-401-805 (2)(e).
[Statutory Authority: Chapter 70.94 RCW. 93-20-075 (Order
91-68), 173-401-300, filed 10/4/93, effective 11/4/93.]
