WAC 173-400-114Requirements for replacement or substantial alteration of emission control technology at an existing stationary source.
(1) Any person proposing to replace or substantially alter the emission control technology installed on an existing stationary source or emission unit shall file a notice of construction application with the appropriate authority, or with ecology in areas or for sources over which ecology has jurisdiction. Replacement or substantial alteration of control technology does not include routine maintenance, repair or similar parts replacement.
(2) A project to replace or substantially alter emission control technology at an existing stationary source that results in an increase in emissions of any air contaminant is subject to new source review as provided in WAC 173-400-110. For any other project to replace or significantly alter control technology the permitting authority may:
(a) Require that the owner or operator employ RACT for the affected emission unit;
(b) Prescribe reasonable operation and maintenance conditions for the control equipment; and
(c) Prescribe other requirements as authorized by chapter ((70.94))70A.15 RCW.
(3) Within ((thirty))30 days of receipt of a notice of construction application under this section ecology or the authority shall either notify the applicant in writing that the application is complete or notify the applicant in writing of all additional information necessary to complete the application. Within ((thirty))30 days of receipt of a complete notice of construction application under this section ecology or the authority shall either issue an order of approval or a proposed RACT determination for the proposed project.
(4) Construction shall not "commence," as defined in WAC 173-400-030, on a project subject to review under this section until ecology or the authority issues a final order of approval. However, any notice of construction application filed under this section shall be deemed to be approved without conditions if ecology or the authority takes no action within ((thirty))30 days of receipt of a complete notice of construction application.
(5) Approval to replace or substantially alter emission control technology shall become invalid if construction is not commenced within ((eighteen))18 months after receipt of such approval, if construction is discontinued for a period of ((eighteen))18 months or more, or if construction is not completed within a reasonable time. Ecology or the authority may extend the ((eighteen))18-month period upon a satisfactory showing that an extension is justified. This provision does not apply to the time period between construction of the approved phases of a phased construction project; each phase must commence construction within ((eighteen))18 months of the projected and approved commencement date.

AMENDATORY SECTION(Amending WSR 18-17-111, filed 8/16/18, effective 9/16/18)
