<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 60 Issue 181 (Tuesday, September 19, 1995)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 60, Number 181 (Tuesday, September 19, 1995)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 48388-48417]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 95-22725]



=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

40 CFR Parts 9 and 63

[AD-FRL-5272-8]
RIN 2060-AD02


Federal Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations and 
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Marine 
Tank Vessel Loading Operations

AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: This action promulgates standards under section 183(f) of the 
Clean Air Act (the Act) and requires reasonably available control 
technology (RACT) to limit air emissions of volatile organic compounds 
(VOC) and hazardous air pollutants (HAP) from new and existing marine 
tank vessel loading operations. VOC emissions, together with nitrogen 
oxides are precursors to the formation of tropospheric ozone, which can 
impair lung capacity, cause eye, nose and throat irritation, timber and 
other valuable crops such as soybeans and cotton. The health effects of 
exposure to HAPs can include cancer, respiratory irritation and damage 
to the nervous system. An additional set of standards promulgate 
national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) under 
section 112 of the Act for marine tank vessel loading operations and 
require existing and new major sources to control emissions using 
maximum achievable control technology (MACT) to control HAP.

EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective September 19, 1995. See 
Supplementary Information section concerning judicial review.

ADDRESSES: Technical Support Document. The Technical Support Document 
(TSD) for the promulgated standards may be obtained from the U.S. 
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 
Springfield, Virginia 22161, telephone number (703) 487-4650. Please 
refer to ``Federal Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations 
and National Emission Standards For Hazardous Air Pollutants For Marine 
Tank Vessel Loading Operations--Technical Support Document for Final 
Standards,'' Document Number PB95-234514. The TSD contains, (1) a 
summary of public comments made on the proposed standards and the 
Administrator's response to the comments and (2) a summary of the 
changes made to the standards since proposal.
    Electronic versions of the promulgation TSD as well as this final 
rule are available for download from the EPA's Technology Transfer 
Network (TTN), a network of electronic bulletin boards developed and 
operated by the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (select 
``CAAA'' ``Title III''). The TTN provides information and technology 
exchange in various areas of air pollution control. The service is 
free, except for the cost of a phone call. Dial (919) 541-5742 for data 
transfer of up to a 14,400 bits per second (bps). If more information 
on TTN is needed, contact the systems operator at (919) 541-5384. A 
copy of the TSD has also been placed in the Docket at the address given 
below.
    Docket. Docket No. A-90-44, containing supporting information used 
in developing the promulgated standards, is available for public 
inspection and copying from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at 
the EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, Waterside 
Mall, Room M-1500, Ground Floor, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 
20460. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information concerning the 
standards or technical aspects, contact Mr. David Markwordt at (919) 
541-0837, Emission Standards Division (MD-13), U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 307(b)(1) of the Act, judicial 
review of NESHAP is available only by the filing of a petition for 
review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia 
Circuit within 60 days of today's publication of this rule. Under 
section 307(b)(2) of the Act, the requirements that are the subject of 
today's notice may not be challenged later in civil or criminal 
proceedings 

[[Page 48389]]
brought by the EPA to enforce these requirements.
    The information presented in this preamble is organized as follows:

I. The Standards
II. Summary of Impacts
III. Significant Changes to the Proposed Standards
    A. Public Participation
    B. Comments on the Proposed Standards
    C. Significant Changes
    D. Minor Changes
    E. Other Significant Issues
IV. Administrative Requirements
    A. Docket
    B. Paperwork Reduction Act
    C. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis
    D. Regulatory Flexibility Act
    E. Unfunded Mandates Act

I. The Standards

    A summary of today's final standards is listed in Table 1. Included 
in this table are applicability cutoffs based on annual throughput 
(under section 183(f)) and HAP emissions (under section 112), 
separation of marine tank vessel loading operations at petroleum 
refineries (which are now included under the petroleum refineries 
source category), and emission standards based on subcategory 
determinations for offshore terminals and the Alyeska Pipeline Service 
Company's (APSC's) Valdez Marine Terminal (VMT). The promulgated 
regulations allow for several alternative compliance technologies to 
allow owners or operators maximum compliance flexibility.

                                           Table 1.--Final Standards, National Costs, and Emission Reductions                                           
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       Emission reduction, Mg/                          
   Section of act                   Subcategory                              Standard                            yr                 Annual cost, $MM    
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
183(f)..............  New and existing terminals having       98 percent reduction in emissions if    13,000 (VOC), 900 (HAP).  20-40.                  
                       throughput of <gr-thn-eq>1.6 billion    using combustion techniques; 95                                                          
                       liters per year (10 million barrels     percent reduction in emissions if                                                        
                       per year) of gasoline or <gr-thn-       using recovery techniques.                                                               
                       eq>32 billion liters per year (200                                                                                               
                       million barrels per year) of crude                                                                                               
                       oil.                                                                                                                             
112.................  Existing major source terminals having  97 percent reduction in HAP emissions.  7,000 (VOC), 750 (HAP)..  20-40.                  
                       emissions of hazardous air pollutants                                                                                            
                       (HAP) of 10/25 tons per year or more                                                                                             
                       from loading of marine tank vessels.                                                                                             
112.................  Existing major source terminals         97 percent reduction in HAP emissions   Impacts included in       Impacts included in     
                       collocated at petroleum refineries      for existing sources, 98 percent        previous subcategory      previous subcategory   
                       having HAP emissions of 10/25 tons      reduction in HAP emissions for new      data.                     data.                  
                       per year or more from loading of        sources; emissions averaging with                                                        
                       marine tank vessels; new major source   petroleum refinery emissions points                                                      
                       terminals regardless of HAP emissions   is allowed.                                                                              
                       from marine tank vessel loading (both                                                                                            
                       existing and new sources are                                                                                                     
                       regulated under the Gasoline                                                                                                     
                       Refineries NESHAP).                                                                                                              
112.................  Existing major source terminals having  No control............................  None....................  None.                   
                       HAP emissions of less than 10/25 tons                                                                                            
                       per year from loading of marine tank                                                                                             
                       vessels.                                                                                                                         
112.................  New major source terminals regardless   98 percent reduction in HAP emissions.  None....................  None.                   
                       of HAP emissions from marine tank                                                                                                
                       vessel loading.                                                                                                                  
112 and 183(f)......  Existing major source terminals         No control............................  None....................  None.                   
                       located more than 0.8 kilometers (0.5                                                                                            
                       miles) offshore.                                                                                                                 
112.................  New major source terminals located      95 percent reduction in HAP emissions.  None....................  None.                   
                       more than 0.8 kilometers (0.5 miles)                                                                                             
                       offshore.                                                                                                                        
112 and 183(f)......  Alyeska Pipeline Service Company's      98 percent reduction in emissions with  19,000 (VOC), 2,500       20.                     
                       Valdez Marine Terminal.                 maximum throughput limits.              (HAP).                                           
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Sources required to reduce emissions are also required to monitor 
the performance of control technology installed to achieve the required 
emissions reductions. Baseline parameters may be established by owners 
or operators during initial performance tests, or continuous emissions 
monitoring devices may be used to provide indicators of performance. 
The baseline parameters may be based on manufacturer's recommended 
operating parameters or other parameters selected by the source and 
approved by the Administrator. Sources are also required to develop and 
implement an operation and maintenance plan that describes a program of 
corrective action for varying (i.e., exceeding baseline parameters) air 
pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment used to comply 
with these emissions standards. This plan includes operating parameters 
that shall be monitored and recorded as indicators of proper operation 
of the air pollution control devices.
    In developing these final monitoring requirements and compliance 
provisions, the Agency has provided significant flexibility to owners 
or operators of sources required to reduce emissions in regard to 
selecting monitoring protocols, yet has assured compliance with the 
standards. Compliance is assured through reporting and recordkeeping 
requirements that specify annual reports of system performance. This 
reporting interval is compressed to semi-annual for sources that 
experience excess emissions.
    Owners or operators of all marine tank vessel loading operations 
subject to the federal standards promulgated 

[[Page 48390]]
under section 183(f) of the Act (RACT sources) are required to commence 
construction of its vapor collection system and air pollution control 
device(s) within 2 years from September 19, 1995. These RACT sources 
are required to complete the installation of the control technology 
needed to comply with the standards within 3 years from September 19, 
1995. Owners or operators of new RACT sources with an initial startup 
after September 21, 1998 are required to comply with all requirements 
upon startup. A RACT source may request a waiver of final compliance 
for up to 1 year if it can prove that the additional time is necessary 
for the installation of controls.
    Owners or operators of marine tank vessel loading operations 
subject only to the requirements promulgated under section 112(d) of 
the Act (MACT standards) are required to install the control technology 
needed to comply with the standards within 4 years from September 19, 
1995. Owners or operators of new MACT-only sources with initial startup 
after September 20, 1999 are required to comply with all requirements 
upon startup.
    The VMT owners or operators are required to install the control 
technology needed to comply with the standards within 30 months from 
September 19, 1995.

II. Summary of Impacts

    These standards will reduce nationwide emissions of hazardous air 
pollutants (HAP) from marine tank vessel loading operations by 
approximately 4,150 Mg (4,565 tons) after 1999 compared to the 
emissions that would result in the absence of the standards. These 
standards will reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
from marine tank vessel loading operations by approximately 39,000 Mg 
(42,900 tons) after 1999 compared to the emissions that would result in 
the absence of the standards. No significant adverse secondary air, 
water, solid waste, or energy impacts are anticipated from the 
promulgation of these standards.
    The implementation of this regulation is expected to result in 
nationwide annualized costs for existing marine tank vessel loading 
operations of $60 million to $100 million beyond baseline based on an 
analysis of applying controls to all existing facilities not currently 
controlled to the level of the standards. Nationwide capital costs 
expected to result from these regulations are approximately $266 
million to $440 million.
    As discussed in this preamble under Regulatory Flexibility Act 
Compliance, the economic impact analysis performed for this rulemaking 
showed that the estimated maximum price increases for the affected 
products varied, but were not large (less than 1%). These price-
increase estimates reflect the control cost increases for transporting 
crude and products. Because these increases are small and because the 
elasticities of demand for petroleum products are small, estimated 
percent output reductions were minimal. Correspondingly, estimated 
employment reductions were also relatively small.
    Potentially significant economic impacts on some of the smaller 
affected terminal operations were identified, although the decision not 
to require emission controls for existing smaller operations greatly 
reduces the potential for adverse economic impacts on small terminal 
operations. These potential impacts would result from the high per 
barrel control cost differential between the smaller and larger 
terminal operations that would need to control emissions. Some of these 
smaller terminal operations, to the extent that they are competing with 
nearby larger or unaffected terminal operations, could have had 
difficulty raising prices to cover cost increases and could have been 
significantly adversely impacted by this rule.
    The potential economic impact on marine tank vessel owners was 
substantially reduced because of the decision not to require emission 
controls on small existing terminals in this rulemaking. Because only a 
small percentage of U.S. marine transported volume of products will be 
impacted by the standard, only a relatively small percentage of U.S. 
marine tank vessels will need to retrofit. Thus, only the vessels that 
will need the least cost to retrofit (most likely the larger, newer, 
double-skin vessels) will do so, leading to some degree of dedicated 
service. It is expected that vessel owners that do retrofit will be 
able to pass most retrofit costs forward in terms of higher prices.

III. Significant Changes to the Proposed Standards

    Proposed standards for marine tank vessel loading operations were 
published in the Federal Register on May 13, 1994 (59 FR 25004). Under 
section 183(f) of the Act, the proposed rule would have required a 98 
percent reduction in emissions (or a 95 percent reduction, if recovery 
techniques were used) from marine tank vessel loading and unloading 
operations that load either 100 million barrels per year of crude oil 
or 5 million barrels per year of gasoline. Sources would have had 2 
years to comply with these RACT standards. Under section 112(d) of the 
Act, the proposed rule also would have required owners or operators of 
major sources that emit 1 ton per year or more of HAP from marine tank 
vessel loading and unloading operations to reduce total HAP emissions 
by at least 93 percent. Sources would have had 3 years to comply with 
these MACT standards. The control devices used to meet these standards 
were required to be operated at 98 and 95 percent efficiencies for 
combustion and recovery control technologies respectively. The EPA also 
proposed to regulate emissions from ballasting.
    Three alternatives were proposed to ensure vessel tightness: (1) 
Pressure test the vessel, (2) perform a leak test on all components 
using Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, or (3) load the vessel 
at less than atmospheric pressure.
    Proposed monitoring requirements required owners or operators to 
monitor any valves that could divert flow from a control device if 
those bypass valves could not be secured. Monitoring criteria were also 
proposed for combustion devices, carbon adsorbers, condensers, 
absorbers, and flares. Owners or operators were generally required to 
establish operating parameters during an initial performance test and 
then monitor combustion temperature for combustion devices, VOC 
concentration in the exhaust stream for carbon adsorbers, exhaust 
stream temperature for condensers, VOC outlet concentration for 
absorbers, and continuous presence of a flame and the vent stream flow 
for flares. Criteria to apply for and obtain approval for alternative 
monitoring criteria (and for alternative monitoring devices) were also 
specified in the proposed rule.
    Under the proposed rule, owners or operators of sources required to 
install controls would have had to fulfill the reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements of the part 63 General Provisions, including 
submittal of the following reports: (1) Initial notification that the 
source is subject to the standards, (2) notification of initial 
performance test, (3) initial notification of compliance status, (4) 
annual excess emissions and monitoring system performance report and/or 
summary report, and (5) an annual emissions estimation report. These 
sources would also have been required to maintain documentation that 
vessels loaded at the facility were vapor tight. All information was to 
have been made readily available to the Administrator or 

[[Page 48391]]
delegated State authority for a minimum of 5 years.
    In addition, the Agency requested comment on several issues, 
including the subcategorization of certain types of terminals. On 
August 31, 1994, the Agency published a notice reopening the comment 
period to request comment on amending the Marine Tank Vessel Loading 
and the Petroleum Refinery source categories to move marine terminals 
collocated at petroleum refineries to the Petroleum Refineries source 
category (59 FR 44955). On March 8, 1995, the Agency reopened the 
comment period to request comment on extending the proposed compliance 
dates (60 FR 12703).

A. Public Participation

    Prior to proposal of the standards, interested parties were advised 
by public notice in the Federal Register (56 FR 1186) of a meeting of 
the National Air Pollution Control Techniques Advisory Committee to 
discuss the regulation of this source category. This meeting was held 
on January 31, 1991. The meeting was open to the public, and each 
attendee was given an opportunity to comment on the standards 
recommended for proposal.
    The standards were proposed, and the preamble was published in the 
Federal Register on May 13, 1994 (59 FR 25004). The preamble to the 
proposed standards discussed the availability of the regulatory text 
and proposal TSD, which described the regulatory alternatives 
considered and the impacts of those alternatives. Public comments were 
solicited at the time of proposal, and copies of the regulatory text 
and TSD were distributed to interested parties. Electronic versions of 
the preamble, regulation, and TSD were made available to interested 
parties via the TTN (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble).
    To provide interested persons the opportunity for oral presentation 
of data, views, or arguments concerning the proposed standards, a 
public hearing was held on June 15, 1994 in Research Triangle Park, 
North Carolina. The public comment period was from May 13 to July 18, 
1994. The Agency also reopened the public comment period for specific 
comments on two occasions--August 31, 1994 (59 FR 44955) and March 8, 
1995 (60 FR 12723). In all, over 150 comment letters were received 
(including seven duplicates). Additional information received from 
interested parties but not submitted directly to the docket was 
included in the docket as additional comments on the proposed 
regulation. Information submitted after the close of the comment period 
is also included in the docket and may appear on the docket index as 
public comments in docket category IV-D. The comments have been 
carefully considered, and changes have been made to the proposed 
standards when determined by the Administrator to be appropriate.

B. Comments on the Proposed Standards

    Comments on the proposed standards were received from 143 
commenters composed mainly of States, environmental groups, private 
citizens, control device vendors, industry, and trade associations. A 
detailed discussion of these comments and responses can be found in the 
promulgation TSD, which is referred to in the ADDRESSES section of this 
preamble. The summary of comments and responses in the TSD serves as 
the basis for the revisions that have been made to the regulations 
between proposal and promulgation. Most of the comment letters 
contained multiple comments. A summary of the revisions to the 
regulations along with discussion of the comments on the major issues 
is provided below. In the TSD, the comments have been divided into the 
following areas:
    (1) Applicability of standards.
    (2) Inclusion of certain terminals with the petroleum refinery 
source category.
    (3) Subcategorization issues.
    (4) RACT/MACT.
    (5) Compliance schedule for Titles I and III standards.
    (6) Compliance, performance testing, and monitoring requirements.
    (7) Vapor tightness requirements.
    (8) Leak detection and repair.
    (9) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
    (10) General provisions interaction.
    (11) Wording of regulation.
    (12) Administrative record/sources of information.
    (13) Cost effectiveness/impacts.
    (14) Miscellaneous.
    (15) Comments on proposed appendices to 40 CFR part 64.

C. Significant Changes

    Several changes have been made since the proposal of these 
standards. The majority of the changes have been made to clarify 
portions of the rule that were unclear to the commenters. A summary of 
the major changes is presented below.
    (1) Removal of unloading operations (ballasting) from the source 
category. In the proposed rule, the Agency included regulations 
proscribing emissions from ballasting of vessels following unloading of 
vessels. Comments asserted that ballasting operations are performed by 
vessel operators, not by the regulated terminal sources. The Agency 
agrees with this interpretation of the affected source. The Agency also 
agrees that regulating ballasting operations would be difficult to 
enforce. The Agency's intent in prohibiting ballasting emissions in the 
proposed regulation was to provide a cross-reference with existing 
Coast Guard regulations addressing ballasting in vessels. The Coast 
Guard rules require vessels to have segregated ballast tanks for crude 
oil loadings. The Agency sees no benefit to restating Coast Guard 
requirements for ballasting. Moreover, EPA agrees that the relatively 
low amount of actual emissions associated with ballasting does not 
justify dual regulation of ballasting. As discussed in the proposal 
TSD, the total VOC emissions from crude oil tankship ballasting were 
estimated to be approximately 950 Mg/yr. Based on the portion of HAP in 
crude oil vapor, total HAP emissions from ballasting are less than 120 
Mg/yr. Ballasting emissions will diminish in the future because 
tankships built since 1980 are required by domestic law and 
international agreement to use segregated ballast tanks that do not 
emit vapors during ballasting. Therefore, in order to prevent confusion 
in the regulated community, the Agency does not address ballasting or 
bunkering emissions in the final regulation. The Agency defers to the 
U.S. Coast Guard's existing standards (33 CFR parts 155 and 157; and 46 
CFR parts 30 et al.).
    (2) Extension of the compliance schedule for section 183(f) 
(``Title I'') and section 112 (``Title III'') standards. In the 
proposed rule, EPA proposed to establish compliance deadlines of 2 
years for the section 183(f) standards, and 3 years for the section 112 
standards. The Agency received numerous comments regarding these 
schedules that stated the length of the compliance periods was 
insufficient to comply with the standards. Commenters noted that 
facilities' abilities to install pollution control devices are 
constrained by several factors, including the following: (1) The 
limited number of contractors experienced in installing control 
equipment in marine loading facilities; (2) the numerous facilities 
that will need to meet the standards at the same time; and (3) the lead 
time needed to meet permitting and safety requirements from permitting 
authorities and the U.S. Coast Guard.
    Commenters stated that EPA had discretion to extend the compliance 
period under section 183(f), noting the ambiguity of the term 
``effective date'' and that the evidence indicated that the proposed 
emission control technologies 

[[Page 48392]]
would not be ``reasonably available, considering costs, nonair-quality 
benefits, environmental impacts, energy requirements, and safety 
factors'' within 2 years. Commenters also noted that EPA had the 
authority to provide for a waiver of compliance with MACT standards 
under section 112 for up to 1 year if certain findings were made.
    On March 8, 1995, EPA reopened the comment period to receive more 
comments on the issue of whether the compliance periods for the RACT 
and MACT regulations should be extended. Numerous commenters indicated 
support for extending the compliance periods, generally reiterating the 
views expressed in earlier comments. Some commenters also pointed out 
that greater environmental benefits can sometimes be obtained by 
granting longer compliance periods, which can allow for better 
designed, more robust, safer and more advanced technologies, and in 
this instance, could result in greater use of recovery technologies 
(rather than incineration). Commenters also noted that previous 
attempts by States to regulate tank vessel loading in less than 3 years 
resulted in the need for numerous waivers as it became clear that the 
deadlines could not be met. One commenter provided a list of several 
marine loading terminals in California that had installed emission 
control equipment and indicated that almost all of these installation 
projects took at least 3 years to complete.
    The Agency agrees with the commenters that permitting and safety 
approvals from permitting authorities and the Coast Guard, the dearth 
of skilled engineering and construction firms, and the history of 
facilities being unable to comply with existing regulations compels the 
Agency to extend the date for full compliance with the RACT and MACT 
rules. In these final standards, EPA allows sources regulated under 
section 183(f) 3 years to be in full compliance with the emission 
control requirements promulgated under section 183(f). In addition, 
RACT sources may request a waiver of up to 1 year to achieve full 
compliance with the requirements if they can show that the additional 
period is necessary for the installation of controls. The Agency 
believes that this result is consistent with section 183(f). Section 
183(f) requires the application of ``reasonably available'' control 
technology, considering costs, any non-air quality benefits, 
environmental impacts, energy requirements, and safety factors. The 
overwhelming evidence received by the Agency indicates that most, if 
not all, sources that must install emission control devices cannot do 
so within 2 years. States that have attempted to enforce such a 
requirement have been forced to provide waivers to the regulated 
sources. Given the relative scarcity of qualified contractors and the 
permitting and other requirements necessary for such construction, it 
is clear that the emission control technologies required by this rule 
will not be ``reasonably available'' within 2 years of the promulgation 
of this rule. Moreover, the information provided to the Agency 
indicates that a 2-year deadline may force regulated sources to install 
equipment that is less reliable and that may cause safety concerns. 
Given the emphasis that Congress put on safety in these regulations and 
the fact that the Coast Guard will need to review such installations 
prior to operation, a 2-year deadline seems contrary to Congress' broad 
intent and may result in conflicts with Coast Guard requirements. The 
Agency has in the past provided sources with reasonable time to 
complete actions required by the Clean Air Act. See EPA rulemaking on 
fuel/fuel additives published on June 27, 1994 (59 FR 33042).
    Moreover, EPA believes that the imprecision of the term ``effective 
date'' could also provide EPA with the ability to allow compliance 
after 2 years. The distinction between ``effective dates'' of 
regulations and ``compliance dates'' is important and has been a clear 
part of administrative procedure for many years. See, e.g., section 
112(i)(3); Natural Resources Defense Council v. Environmental 
Protection Agency, 22 F. 3d 1125, 1138 (D.C. Cir. 1994).
    The Agency is requiring regulated RACT sources to provide proof 
that they have commenced construction of vapor collection systems and 
air pollution control devices within 2 years after promulgation of the 
final standards. The Agency believes that these actions can reasonably 
be achieved within 2 years of promulgation.
    The Agency believes that most RACT terminals will be able to meet 
the emissions reduction requirements contained in the final standards 
within the 3 years following the promulgation date. The Agency 
estimates that only 8 terminals subject to the RACT requirements are 
not presently controlling emissions to the level specified in the 
standards. These terminals are among the largest terminals in the U.S., 
and can reasonably be expected to have in-house staff capable of 
assisting in the design and installation of control technology. 
Furthermore, the Agency is aware that some of these terminals are 
already designing control equipment in anticipation of these final RACT 
requirements.
    The EPA shall allow existing sources regulated solely under section 
112 four years to be in full compliance with the emission control 
requirements promulgated under section 112. Sources must generally 
comply with MACT standards under section 112 within 3 years of 
promulgation. However, section 112(i) of the Act specifically allows 
EPA to provide sources with a waiver of up to 1 year to achieve full 
compliance with the requirements if they can show that the additional 
period is necessary for installing the controls. Commenters stated that 
standards containing similar compliance dates for a large number of 
sources would result in numerous facilities competing for a limited 
number of experienced contractors in order to meet the standards at the 
same time. Commenters suggested a staggered compliance schedule for the 
sources affected by the standards. Commenters also stated that many 
sources would require more than 3 years to install the required control 
equipment given the limited number of contractors experienced in 
installing control equipment in marine loading facilities and the lead 
time needed to meet permitting and safety requirements from permitting 
authorities and the U.S. Coast Guard.
    The Agency agrees with the commenters that many MACT sources would 
probably require 1-year waivers if there was a 3-year compliance date 
for MACT sources in the final rule. The Agency notes that these sources 
are typically smaller than the sources regulated under RACT, and would 
not be as likely to have in-house staff capable of assisting in the 
design and installation of control technology. Therefore, the Agency 
believes that the sources controlled under section 112 that are not 
controlled under section 183(f) should automatically receive a waiver 
of 1 year that will allow a total of four years from September 19, 1995 
to comply with the MACT emission reduction requirements. The Agency 
believes that this total of 4 years is sufficient time for the 
estimated 20 sources presently uncontrolled to design and install 
control technologies sufficient to meet the MACT standards. The Agency 
believes that the staggered compliance schedule (i.e., 3 years for RACT 
terminals and 4 years for MACT terminals) coupled with the reduced 
number of terminals required to control emissions under the final rule 
should alleviate commenters' concerns about the scarcity of qualified 
installation consultants and vendors. This extended 

[[Page 48393]]
schedule is also expected to address concerns regarding permitting 
delays.
    The Agency is providing the VMT with 30 months to be in full 
compliance with these regulations. The Agency believes, per its 
discussions with APSC, that this extension provides sufficient time to 
comply with the promulgated rule.
    (3) Addition of new subcategories under the section 112 regulations 
for offshore terminals and for the Alyeska Pipeline Service 
Corporation's Valdez Marine Terminal. In the proposed rule, the Agency 
established two subcategories based on size for the section 112 MACT 
regulations. The Agency also solicited comments on whether additional 
subcategories should be established under the MACT regulations for 
specific types of terminals based on particular characteristics of 
those types of terminals of which the Agency had no information at that 
time. Based on information received in the public comments, the Agency 
has determined that two additional subcategories exist within the 
marine tank vessel loading operation source category.
    (a) Subcategory for offshore terminals. As stated in the 
solicitation of comments in the proposed rule, the Agency does not 
believe that a facility at least one-half mile offshore is part of a 
land-based contiguous site. The Agency also stated that such offshore 
terminals present unique regulatory challenges such as costs, 
environmental impacts, and/or size constraints. The Agency requested 
information regarding the feasibility and costs of controlling 
emissions from offshore terminals. The Agency also requested comments 
on whether offshore terminals should be grouped into a separate 
subcategory and what the control status of terminals in such a 
subcategory should be. Comments in response to this request indicated 
that these types of vessel loading operations face significant 
challenges in controlling emissions that were different from land-
based, contiguous loading operations. These challenges include high 
costs, technical complications, and permitting requirements that would 
result from requirements to construct new platforms to locate control 
equipment adjacent to the offshore terminal or additional subsea or 
surface lines to route loading vapors to onshore control equipment. 
Commenters noted that these challenges are either non-existent or not 
as pronounced for onshore, contiguous terminals. The Agency has 
therefore determined that a subcategory for these types of terminals is 
justified and has based its definition for offshore terminals on a 
minimum distance of one-half mile from the terminal's furthest loading 
point to the shore, regardless of the existence of subsea lines. [See 
the discussion in section 2.3.2 of the TSD for the rationale supporting 
the one-half mile limit].
    Once the Agency determined that offshore terminals should be placed 
in a subcategory for the MACT standards, the MACT floor was determined 
(see Docket A-90-44, Item Number IV-B-2). Based on information received 
from commenters, (see Docket A-90-44, Item Number IV-D-136) the Agency 
estimates that there are fewer than 20 offshore terminals having subsea 
lines. None of these terminals presently control emissions from marine 
tank vessel loading. The Agency is also aware of additional offshore 
terminals that do not have subsea lines. Two of these terminals are 
known to presently control emissions (see Docket A-90-44, Item Number 
IV-D-80). Based on the information available to the Agency, the MACT 
floor for this subcategory is no control of HAP emissions (see MACT 
floor memorandum in Docket A-90-44, Item Number IV-B-2). Data submitted 
by commenters showed that the costs associated with the control of 
offshore terminals are between two and five times more expensive than 
comparable onshore control techniques (see Docket A-90-44, Item numbers 
IV-D-108 and IV-D-136). Because of the poor cost effectiveness 
resulting from these significantly higher costs, as well as the 
environmental, safety, and technical challenges associated with 
requiring control more efficient than the MACT floor, the Agency has 
selected the MACT floor level of no control for offshore marine tank 
vessel loading operations.
    The Agency also determined that offshore terminals loading 10 
million barrels or more per year of gasoline or 200 million barrels or 
more of crude oil should not be required to control VOC or HAP 
emissions under section 183(f) RACT requirements. Although one 
commenter (see Docket A-90-44, Item Number IV-D-80) noted two 
controlled offshore terminals, no information was submitted regarding 
the specific control techniques used at these two terminals. Since most 
of the other comments noted that the significantly higher costs and 
poor cost effectiveness shown by these sources (see previous paragraph) 
would make control requirements unreasonable for these offshore 
terminals, the Agency determined that requirement for controls at 
offshore RACT terminals would not be consistent with the requirements 
for the technology to be ``reasonable.''
    (b) Subcategory for Alyeska Pipeline Service Company's Valdez 
Marine Terminal. In the proposed rule, the Agency solicited comment on 
the possibility of placing the VMT in a separate subcategory. Comments 
from APSC and several other commenters representing State and local 
governments, industry, private citizens, and environmental groups were 
considered by the Agency in developing this final rule.
    The Agency has determined that the VMT should be placed in a 
separate subcategory for the following reasons: (1) The VMT is the 
largest (by a significant amount) crude oil loading operation in the 
U.S.; (2) special circumstances, including climatic and economic 
conditions, require keeping the oil moving through the pipeline; (3) 
severe meteorological conditions result in increased loading 
irregularity; (4) the VMT throughput projections show declining 
throughput over the next several years. Several comments from 
environmental groups, State and local agencies, and private citizens in 
the Valdez area did not object to placing VMT in a separate subcategory 
provided that emissions were controlled. Based on all of these factors, 
the Agency determined that APSC's VMT should be placed in a separate 
subcategory.
    Once the subcategory for VMT was established, the Agency determined 
the MACT floor for the subcategory (see Docket A-90-44, Item Number IV-
B-2). The VMT presently does not control emissions, therefore the MACT 
floor is no control. However, the Agency noted that in all of the 
comments received concerning the establishment of this subcategory, the 
cost effectiveness associated with requiring controls more stringent 
than the MACT floor is not prohibitive. The annual emissions reductions 
anticipated from controlling VMT are expected to be approximately 
19,000 Mg (20,900 tons) of VOC and approximately 2,500 Mg (2,750 tons) 
of HAP. The annual costs anticipated with today's regulation of VMT are 
expected to be $20 million. The resulting cost effectiveness is 
approximately $1,050 per megagram based on VOC or approximately $8,000 
per megagram based on HAP. The Agency therefore selected a strategy for 
both MACT and RACT standards for VMT that requires a reduction in 
emissions by 98 percent efficiency of all throughput loaded from at 
least two of the terminal's loading berths. Maximum limits for total 
throughput and throughput at uncontrolled berths (above which all VMT 
loading berths would be required to reduce emissions by 98 percent) are 
included as part of these standards. 

[[Page 48394]]
These throughput limits address the projected decreasing throughput 
that would necessitate the use of only two berths for routine loading 
after 2001. Provisions to allow for scheduled maintenance of the 
controlled berths are also established in the VMT standards.
    Some commenters initially noted that the cost of controlling VOC 
may be high relative to the benefits of controlling VOC at a remote 
site in an Arctic ozone attainment area. Additionally, some commenters 
initially stated that the benefits of controlling HAP would not appear 
to justify the costs. However, the Agency has also considered later 
comments from the APSC, the State of Alaska, the Prince William Sound 
Regional Citizens Advisory Committee (a local citizens group) and 
private citizens in determining MACT/RACT for the VMT. These commenters 
agreed that a Federal rule mandating control of primary emissions at 
the APSC was acceptable. After careful consideration of the costs, the 
environmental impacts and the comments, the Agency decided that MACT 
for this subcategory was control beyond the level of the MACT floor 
(see Docket A-44-90, Item Number IV-B-2).
    (4) Expansion of the petroleum refineries source category to 
include marine tank vessel loading operations collocated at petroleum 
refinery operations. The preamble to the proposed petroleum refinery 
NESHAP published in the Federal Register on July 15, 1994 (59 FR 36130) 
requested comments on whether marine tank vessel loading operations at 
refineries should be included in emissions averaging. On August 31, 
1994, the EPA also reopened the comment period for the proposed NESHAP 
for Marine Tank Vessel Loading Operations (59 FR 44955) to request 
comment on whether marine terminals collocated at refineries should be 
moved to the petroleum refinery source category. During the comment 
period for the gasoline distribution NESHAP, commenters requested that 
bulk gasoline terminals contiguous to a refinery be regulated by the 
petroleum refinery NESHAP.
    Several commenters responding to the marine tank vessel loading 
operations proposed NESHAP supported averaging of refinery process unit 
emissions with emissions from marine terminals and gasoline 
distribution operations that are located at refineries. The commenters 
cited more cost effective emission reduction as the advantage of 
including these emission points in emissions averaging and specifically 
commented that the costs per Mg emission reduction of the marine tank 
vessel loading emission controls are high. These commenters also 
claimed that emission calculation procedures for loading are well 
established and that adding marine loading to the averaging provisions 
will not appreciably increase the complexity of enforcement. Other 
commenters opposed including marine tank vessel loading and gasoline 
distribution in emissions averaging. Some commenters claimed that these 
are separate source categories, and the Act does not permit averaging 
across source categories. Others were concerned that including marine 
loading in averages could result in uncontrolled peak emissions.
    In the final rules, emissions from marine tank vessel loading 
operations, bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station storage 
vessels, and bulk gasoline terminal loading racks at petroleum 
refineries are allowed to be included in emissions averages. The 
petroleum refinery source category and source definitions have been 
changed to include marine tank vessel loading operations, bulk gasoline 
terminal and pipeline breakout station storage vessels, equipment 
leaks, and bulk gasoline terminal loading racks classified under SIC 
codes 5171 (Petroleum Bulk Stations and Terminals) and 4613 (Refined 
Petroleum Pipelines) that are located at refinery plant sites. Note 
that these operations are closely connected with refinery process unit 
operations since they transfer products of the refinery process units.
    A marine tank vessel loading operation or gasoline terminal or 
pipeline breakout station that is collocated at a petroleum refinery 
can be considered part of the same source as the refinery subject to 
this rule. Because these operations are redefined to be part of the 
source subject to the rule, the prohibition against intersource 
averaging is not violated. However, all terminals subject to section 
183(f) regardless of location will not be allowed to average emissions 
with petroleum refinery sources.
    In keeping with EPA's stated goal of increasing flexibility in 
rulemakings, this decision has been made to provide more opportunities 
to average. This decision optimizes the opportunities for refiners to 
find cost-effective emission reductions from overall facility 
operations on-site. Costs and cost effectiveness of controlling a 
particular kind of emission point, such as marine tank vessel loading, 
will vary depending on many site-specific factors. Emissions averaging 
allows the owner and operator to find the optimal control strategy for 
their particular situation.
    Including emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations, 
bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station storage vessels, 
and bulk gasoline terminal loading racks in emissions averages will 
result in equivalent or greater overall HAP emission reduction at each 
refinery. The averaging provisions are structured such that ``debits'' 
generated by not controlling an emission point that otherwise would 
require control must be balanced by achieving extra control at other 
refinery emission points covered by the NESHAP.
    With regard to commenter's concerns about peak emissions, the 
quarterly cap on the ratio of debits to credits is intended to limit 
the possibility of exposure peaks. Furthermore, because loading 
operations occur fairly frequently and emissions from an individual 
vessel filling or loading event are relatively small, such emissions 
are not expected to cause significant exposure peaks. Moreover, no 
evidence has been presented that emissions averaging would permit a 
very different mix of emissions to occur than would point-by-point 
compliance. That is, peaks of exposures from batch streams, storage, 
and loading operations should be equally likely under point-by-point 
compliance as under emissions averaging; therefore, emissions averaging 
does not represent a less effective control strategy. Furthermore, in 
order to receive approval for an emissions average, the owner or 
operator is required to demonstrate that the emissions average does not 
increase the risk or hazard relative to compliance without averaging.
    (5) Revision to the subcategories established based on annual HAP 
emissions from 1 ton per year to 10 tons per year of any single HAP or 
25 tons per year of total HAP. The proposed standards grouped major 
source terminals into two subcategories based on HAP emissions: 
Terminals with HAP emissions of 1 ton per year or more and terminals 
having HAP emissions of less than 1 ton per year. In the preamble of 
the proposed rule, the Agency requested comment on establishing these 
subcategories based on size (i.e., HAP emissions). In the public 
comments, the Agency found general, though not universal, agreement on 
establishing subcategories based on size for this source category. 
However, some of the comments encouraged the Agency to raise the HAP 
emissions level of the controlled subcategory. The final standards 
continue to group major source terminals into subcategories based on 
HAP emissions; however, these subcategories were changed to terminals 
with emissions of 10 tons per year or more of any single HAP or 25 

[[Page 48395]]
tons per year or more of total HAP and terminals having HAP emissions 
of less than 10 tons per year of all single HAP or less than 25 tons 
per year of total HAP. The Agency based this decision on information 
found in the comments received. Commenters noted that prior state 
regulations generally (though not invariably) distinguished between 
large tank vessel loading facilities that are responsible for the vast 
majority of emissions and small tank vessel loading facilities that are 
substantially less cost effective to regulate. (As discussed below, the 
incremental cost effectiveness of moving from the 10/25 ton per year 
distinction to the 1-ton delineation is between $80,000 and $112,000 
per megagram, while the cost effectiveness of the 10/25 ton delineation 
is between $14,500 and $24,000 per megagram.)
    Though section 112 does not provide any language indicating the 
criteria for subcategorization, section 112(d)(1) of the Act states 
that EPA may distinguish among classes, types, and sizes of sources in 
establishing standards. EPA believes that division of this source 
category into two subcategories based on size is appropriate in this 
instance. (See section 2.3.1 of the promulgation TSD for additional 
discussion of the subcategories based on size.)
    (6) Incorporation of minimum vapor pressure limit. The Agency 
received several comments regarding HAP having low vapor pressures. 
Most of these commenters stated that these low vapor pressure HAPs are 
not presently controlled under existing State regulations and that the 
control of these low vapor pressure compounds presents technical 
challenges and imposes significantly greater costs to the affected 
industry. The proposed rule enabled individual facilities to determine 
which products to control to achieve the 93 percent mass limit. 
Therefore, facilities would not have had to control low vapor pressure 
liquids under the proposed rule if higher vapor pressure liquids were 
available for control. Based on the comments received, the Agency 
altered the format of the MACT standards to explicitly exempt low vapor 
pressure liquids consistent with State requirements and recalculated 
the control requirement for liquids above the vapor pressure limit. 
Therefore, the MACT floor for existing sources is no control for 
liquids having a vapor pressure below 1.5 psia and 97 percent control 
for liquids having a vapor pressure 1.5 psia or greater. Because no low 
vapor pressure liquids are required to be controlled at any of the 
known existing sources, the MACT floor for new sources is also no 
control for liquids having a vapor pressure below 1.5 psia and 98 
percent control for liquids having a vapor pressure 1.5 psia or 
greater. The format of the standard was changed to an efficiency format 
to reflect the new approach.
    The issue of cost effectiveness to control emission streams from 
the loading of these low vapor pressure materials was also a realistic 
concern of the commenters. As the MACT floor for regulation of such 
activities is no control, EPA has discretion, based on section 112(d)'s 
criteria used for going beyond the floor, to institute a vapor pressure 
limit. Because of the high costs cited by commenters, the Agency 
elected not to require controls more stringent than the MACT floor for 
these low vapor pressure HAP. The Agency therefore selected a vapor 
pressure limit of 1.5 psia for determining the HAP emissions reduction 
for the final standards. Control of HAP having vapor pressures below 
this limit is not required to meet the standards.
    (7) Recalculation of the MACT floors. The MACT floors determined 
for this final rulemaking are different than those in the proposed 
rule. These final rule MACT floors reflect changes in the Agency's 
regulation of marine tank vessel loading including: (1) The 
establishment of subcategories for offshore terminals and the VMT 
terminal; (2) the incorporation of a 1.5 psia minimum vapor pressure 
limit instead of the weighted average as was proposed; and (3) the 
increase of the levels of the subcategories based on size (i.e., HAP 
emissions) from 1 ton per year to 10/25 tons per year. The MACT floors 
for the final rule also reflect comments on the proposed rule. However, 
the Agency has not changed the way in which the MACT floors for the 
final rule have been calculated. With the exception of the MACT floor 
for VMT, the MACT floors for existing and new sources in the marine 
tank vessel loading source category are shown in Table 1.
    Using the criteria established in section 112(d)(3) of the Act, and 
after inclusion of information supplied in the public comments, the 
MACT floors for existing source marine terminal subcategories subject 
to regulation under Title III of the Clean Air Act were determined. 
Additional information on the determination of these MACT floors is in 
the docket (Docket Number A-90-44, Item Number IV-A-2). There are 
approximately 44 major source terminals (not including the VMT) that 
emit 10 tons per year or more of any one hazardous air pollutant (HAP) 
or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of HAP. Twenty-three of 
these terminals are controlled. The resulting MACT floor level of 
control is a 97 percent reduction of HAP emissions. There are 
approximately 1,435 terminals that emit less than 10 tons per year of 
all individual HAP and less than 25 tons per year of combined HAP. 
Seventy-nine of these terminals reduce emissions from marine tank 
vessel loading. The resulting MACT floor level of control is no 
reduction in HAP emissions. The Agency estimated that there are less 
than 30 offshore terminals (i.e., loading terminals located 0.5 miles 
or more from shore). The Agency is aware of only 2 controlled offshore 
terminals. Therefore the resulting MACT floor level of control is no 
reduction in HAP emissions. The VMT is presently uncontrolled. Since 
this is the only terminal in the VMT source category, the MACT floor 
level of control is no control.
    The MACT floors for new source marine terminal subcategories 
subject to regulation under Title III of the Act were also calculated 
following the criteria in section 112(d)(3) of the Act. For new major 
source onshore terminals (not including the VMT) regardless of the 
marine tank vessel loading HAP emissions, the best performing source 
achieves a 98 percent reduction of controlled emissions. Therefore, the 
resulting MACT floor for these sources is 98 percent reduction of HAP 
emissions. For new major source offshore terminals whose marine tank 
vessel loading HAP emissions exceed the limits for a major source 
(i.e., 10 tons of any one HAP, or 25 tons of total HAP), the best 
controlled similar source achieves a 95 percent reduction of controlled 
emissions. The resulting MACT floor for new offshore major sources is 
therefore a 95 percent reduction in HAP emissions. Since the VMT 
subcategory only contains a single source, and it is not possible for 
an additional source to be added to this subcategory, no new source 
MACT floor was calculated for the VMT subcategory.
    (8) Incorporation of additional flexibility to the monitoring 
requirements and compliance provisions. The proposed rule required 
parametric monitoring or continuous emissions monitoring (CEM) as a 
means of showing compliance with the standards. Any exceedance of the 
parameters or concentration limits established during a performance 
test would have resulted in a violation of the standard. Comments 
indicated that this approach was too severe and warranted additional 
flexibility. Although the Agency continues to believe that parametric 
monitoring can be used to determine compliance given availability 

[[Page 48396]]
of sufficient test data to establish the relationship between control 
performance and associated parameters, in consideration of the lack of 
test data establishing the relationship between marine tank vessel 
loading emissions control efficiency and parametric monitoring and 
because of the batch nature of marine tank vessel loading operations, 
the Agency has thoroughly revised the monitoring requirements and 
compliance provisions of the final rule. A requirement for an operation 
and maintenance (O & M) plan has been added to the final regulation to 
ensure proper operation of the air pollution control and monitoring 
equipment. The O & M plan contains an inspection schedule for each 
component of the control and monitoring equipment. The ``compliance'' 
language that appeared in Sec. 63.563 of the proposed rule has been 
removed. In its place, the final rule contains provisions that require 
an unscheduled inspection and corrective actions when operating 
parameters exceed the applicable baseline parameters.
    Flexibility has also been added to the methods for determining 
baseline parameters. Owners or operators of a source required to reduce 
emissions may establish baseline parameters during a performance test 
or may choose to set the applicable baseline based on a manufacturer's 
recommended baseline operating parameter.
    Commenters on the proposed rule also requested that additional 
operating parameters be added to the regulation and that sources be 
allowed to apply for alternatives to the Administrator. Additional 
operating parameters have been added to the final regulation for 
several control devices. A cross reference to the general provisions 
found in 40 CFR part 63 (containing requirements for establishing 
alternative monitoring procedures) has been provided to assist sources 
seeking approval of alternative monitoring procedures. Commenters also 
requested that time intervals of the monitoring requirements be made 
consistent for each of the operating parameters. In the final rule, 
sources are required to monitor and record data points every 15 minutes 
for each operating parameter.

D. Minor Changes

    (1) Revisions to definitions and phrasing have been made to clarify 
the regulation.
    (2) Based on comments received and on changes to the monitoring and 
compliance provision requirements, the reporting requirements have been 
changed. Under today's final rule, the Agency is requiring the 
following one-time reports as specified in the general provisions found 
in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A: report of startup, construction or 
modification; notification and report of emissions tests and results 
and/or initial notification of compliance status; notification and 
report of physical/operational changes; notification and report of 
waiver applications; and an engineering report describing the vent 
system used to vent each vent stream to a control device.
    The final rule also requires owners or operators to submit yearly 
summary reports and yearly reports of excess emissions and monitoring 
system performance reports. However, in order to provide relief from 
the reporting requirements to well-controlled sources while assuring 
compliance with the standards, the Agency has provided that sources 
whose exceedances have durations that total less than 5 percent of the 
total reporting time for that reporting period and whose CMS downtime 
for the reporting period is less than 10 percent of the total operating 
time for that reporting period may submit only the summary report found 
in 40 CFR part 63 subpart A instead of both the summary report and the 
full excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance 
report found in Sec. 63.567(d)(2).
    The final rule does not require quarterly reports of excess 
emissions or monitoring parameter exceedances. The Agency agreed with 
commenters that quarterly reporting did not add sufficient compliance 
assurance to warrant the high costs associated with the quarterly 
reporting. Quarterly reporting also did not agree with the revised 
monitoring and compliance determination requirements found in the final 
rule (see section 3(c)(5) of this preamble and section 2.6 of the 
promulgation TSD for additional discussion of the revised monitoring 
requirements contained in the final rule).
    (3) Several commenters requested clarification of the general 
provisions found in 40 CFR part 63 as they relate to this rule. A table 
identifying the relationship of the final General Provisions 
requirements has been added to the final regulation. Language similar 
to that in the General Provisions has been added to subpart Y in cases 
where a direct reference to the General Provisions was not appropriate.
    (4) References to the proposed Performance Specifications 101 and 
102 have been updated to incorporate the Agency's promulgation of 
Performance Specifications 8 and 9.

E. Other Significant Issues

(1) Regulation Under Sections 183(f) and 112
    The EPA proposed to regulate tank vessel loading operations under 
both sections 183(f) and 112 of the Act. Some commenters suggested that 
regulation under section 112 was inappropriate because section 183(f) 
specifically provides for regulation of tank vessel loading operations, 
whereas section 112 is a more general standard. On the other hand, one 
commenter believed that regulation was more appropriate, at least for 
certain facilities, under section 112.
    The Agency believes that the best interpretation of the Clean Air 
Act requires that standards be issued under both sections 183(f) and 
112. The language of section 112 of the Act is clear. ``[T]he 
Administrator shall publish * * * a list of all categories and 
subcategories of major sources and area sources of [HAP].'' Clean Air 
Act section 112(c)(1), 42 U.S.C. Sec. 7412(c)(1) [emphasis added]. 
Further, the Administrator ``shall promulgate regulations establishing 
emission standards for each category or subcategory of major sources 
and area sources of hazardous air pollutants listed for regulation 
pursuant to subsection (c).'' Clean Air Act section 112(d)(1), 42 
U.S.C. Sec. 7412(d)(1). The marine tank vessel loading operations 
source category is clearly a category of major sources, as defined in 
the Act. The Act is thus clear on its face that this source category 
should be regulated under section 112.
    The fact that two separate sections of the Act regulate the same 
source category does not necessitate that one of the sections should be 
ignored. In fact, unless the regulations promulgated under one section 
would create an inescapable conflict with regulations promulgated under 
the other section, both must be followed. The regulations promulgated 
under section 112 are not in conflict with those promulgated under 
section 183(f). EPA believes that any source regulated under both 
sections would have no problem meeting the requirements of both 
standards at the same time.
    Congress often provides for regulation of sources under two 
separate sections. The legislative history indicates that Congress was 
well aware that sources could be subject to dual regulation under 
section 112 and other sections of the Act. See page 167 of the Senate 
Committee Report (Report 101-228). In addition, where Congress wanted 
one section of the Clean Air Act to be exclusive of further regulation 
under 

[[Page 48397]]
section 112(d), they said so explicitly; see sections 129(h)(2), 
112(d)(9). Thus, Congress could have added specific language to section 
183(f) preventing the Agency from regulating this source category under 
section 112; however, it did not do so.
    In addition, neither the statute nor the legislative history 
indicates that Congress intended EPA regulations under section 183(f) 
to be the exclusive regulation of these sources. In fact, section 
183(f) explicitly provides that states may regulate tank vessel loading 
processes and, in fact, requires that any such regulations be as 
stringent or more stringent than the Agency's regulations under section 
183(f).

IV. Administrative Requirements

A. Docket

    The Docket is an organized and complete file of all the information 
considered by the EPA in the development of this rulemaking. The Docket 
is a dynamic file, since material is added throughout the rulemaking 
development. The docketing system allows members of the public and 
industries to readily identify and locate documents so that they can 
effectively participate in the rulemaking process. Along with the 
statement of basis and purpose of the proposed and promulgated 
standards and the EPA responses to significant comments, the contents 
of the Docket will serve as the record in case of judicial review 
[section 307(d)(7)(A)].

B. Paperwork Reduction Act

    The information collection requirements in this rule have been 
approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the 
provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., and 
have been assigned OMB control number (2060-0289). An Information 
Collection Request (ICR) document has been prepared by the EPA (ICR No. 
1679.02) to reflect the changed information requirements of the final 
rule.
    This collection of information has an estimated burden per affected 
facility of about 685 hours for the first year. In subsequent years, 
the burden is approximately 280 hours per affected facility. These 
burden estimates include time for reviewing instructions, searching 
existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and 
completing and reviewing the collection of information.
    Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of 
this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this 
burden to Director, Regulatory Information Division, EPA, 401 M St., 
S.W. (Mail Code 2136), Washington, DC 20460, and to the Office of 
Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 
Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.''

C. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis

    Under Executive Order 12866 [58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)], the 
EPA is required to judge whether a regulation is ``significant'' and 
therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and 
the requirements of this Executive Order to prepare a regulatory impact 
analysis (RIA). The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as 
one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual 
effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a 
material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, 
competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, 
local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious 
inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by 
another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of 
entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs, or the rights and 
obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy 
issues arising from legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the 
principles set forth in the Executive Order.
    Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been 
determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' 
because it will have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or 
more. As such, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes 
made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations are documented 
in the public record (see Docket A-90-44, Item Number IV-H-2).

D. Regulatory Flexibility Act

    The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) requires the 
EPA to consider potential impacts of proposed regulations on small 
business ``entities,'' which are small businesses, small organizations, 
and small governments. It is EPA's current policy to perform a 
regulatory flexibility analysis whenever a regulation is anticipated to 
adversely affect any small entities. An economic impact and regulatory 
flexibility analysis for this regulation was performed and included 
within the regulatory impact analysis that has been submitted to the 
public docket (Docket Number A-90-44, Item Number IV-A-2).
    The regulatory flexibility analysis identified two types of 
businesses that could incur adverse economic impacts from this 
standard, marine terminal operations and marine vessel operations. With 
regard to marine terminal operations, only the very largest terminal 
operations are expected to be affected by this standard. The decision 
not to require controls at existing smaller operations greatly reduces 
the potential for adverse economic impacts on small terminal 
operations. Nevertheless, some of the smaller terminal operations that 
will be affected by this regulation could be put under increased 
competitive pressure as a result of this rule. Of these terminals, 
however, it is expected that few or none are independently owned. The 
rest are part of large integrated petroleum operations. The number of 
small business terminal operations affected by this regulation is 
expected to be minimal.
    With regard to marine vessel operations, the economic impact 
analysis considered the majority of these operations to be small 
businesses. However, the number of vessel operations significantly 
impacted from the proposed standard is not expected to be substantial. 
Only a relatively small percentage of U.S. marine transported 
throughput will be impacted by the standard. Excluding crude oil volume 
shipped by large tankers from the VMT, no more than one-third of the 
remaining U.S. marine transported throughput is expected be impacted by 
the standard. It is expected that an even smaller percentage of U.S. 
vessels will need to be retrofitted to accommodate the volume of 
affected products. Only the largest and newest vessels (i.e., those 
that will cost least to retrofit) will therefore need to be 
retrofitted. Moreover, it is expected that vessel owners will be able 
to pass forward most retrofit costs in the form of higher prices. 
Vessels that cannot retrofit cost effectively and that cannot pass 
through costs can be dedicated to transporting unregulated products.
Economic Impacts
    The EPA performed an economic impact analysis of the regulatory 
requirements in this regulation. Potential price, output, and 
employment impacts for affected products and for the marine transport 
industry were examined. Detailed results from the analysis are included 
in the regulatory impact analysis for this rule that has been submitted 
to the public docket. 

[[Page 48398]]

    Estimated maximum price increases for the affected products varied 
but were not large (less than 1%). These price-increase estimates 
reflect the control cost increases for transporting crude and products. 
Because these increases are small and because the elasticities of 
demand for petroleum products are small, estimated percent output 
reductions were minimal. Correspondingly, estimated employment 
reductions were also relatively small.
    Potentially significant economic impacts on some of the smaller 
affected terminal operations were identified, although the decision not 
to require emission controls for existing smaller operations greatly 
reduces the potential for adverse impacts on small terminal operations. 
These potential impacts would result from the high per barrel control 
cost differential between the smaller and larger terminal operations 
that would need to control emissions. Some of these smaller terminal 
operations, to the extent that they are competing with nearby larger or 
unaffected terminal operations, could have had difficulty raising 
prices sufficiently to cover cost increases and could have been 
significantly and adversely impacted by this rule if the rule were 
applicable to such operations.
    The potential economic impact on marine vessel owners was 
substantially reduced because of the decision not to require emission 
controls for small terminals in this rulemaking. Because only a 
relatively small percentage of U.S. marine transported volume of 
products will be impacted by the standard, only a relatively small 
percentage of U.S. marine vessels will need to retrofit. Thus only the 
vessels that will cost least to retrofit (most likely the larger, 
newer, double-skin vessels) will do so, leading to some degree of 
dedicated service. Vessel owners that do retrofit probably will be able 
to pass most retrofit costs forward in terms of higher prices.

E. Unfunded Mandates Act

    Under section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 
(Unfunded Mandates Act), signed into law on March 22, 1995, the EPA 
must prepare a budgetary impact statement to accompany any proposed or 
final rule that includes a Federal mandate that may result in estimated 
costs to State, local, or tribal governments in the aggregate; or to 
the private sector of $100 million or more. The budgetary impact 
statement must include: (1) An identification of the Federal law under 
which the rule is promulgated; (2) a qualitative and quantitative 
assessment of anticipated costs and benefits of the Federal mandate and 
an analysis of the extent to which such costs to State, local, and 
tribal governments may be paid with Federal financial assistance; (3) 
if feasible, estimates of the future compliance costs and any 
disproportionate budgetary effects of the mandate; (4) if feasible, 
estimates of the effect on the national economy; and (5) a description 
of the Agency's prior consultation with elected representatives of 
State, local, and tribal governments and a summary and evaluation of 
the comments and concerns presented. Section 203 provides that if any 
small governments may be significantly or uniquely impacted by the 
rule, the Agency must establish a plan for obtaining input from and 
informing, educating, and advising any such potentially affected small 
governments.
    Under section 205 of the Unfunded Mandates Act, the Agency must 
identify and consider a reasonable number of regulatory alternatives 
before promulgating a rule for which a budgetary impact statement must 
be prepared. The Agency must select from those alternatives the least 
costly, most cost-effective, or least burdensome alternative for State, 
local, and tribal governments and the private sector, that achieves the 
objectives of the rule, unless the Agency explains why this alternative 
is not selected or unless the selection of this alternative is 
inconsistent with law.
    Because this final rule is estimated to result in the expenditure 
by State, local, and tribal governments in aggregate or by the private 
sector of $60 million to $100 million per year starting in 2000, EPA 
has prepared a supplement to the Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) in 
compliance with the Unfunded Mandates Act. The EPA summarizes that 
supplement as follows:
    This final rule is promulgated under section 112 and section 183(f) 
of the Clean Air Act. The analysis in the RIA developed in preparation 
of the proposed rule and revised in preparation of the final rule 
contains the information to be considered in response to the 
requirements of the Unfunded Mandates Act.
    Total expenditures resulting from the final rule are estimated at 
between $60 million and $100 million (of which less than $75,000 is by 
State, local, and tribal governments) per year in 1997-2000; and 
$550,000 (of which $38,000 is by State, local, and tribal governments) 
per year starting in 2001. There are no federal funds available to 
assist State, local, and tribal governments in meeting these costs. 
There are important benefits from VOC and HAP emission reductions 
because these compounds have significant, adverse impacts on human 
health and welfare and on the environment. The rule does not have any 
disproportionate budgetary effects on any particular region of the 
nation, any State, local, or tribal government, or urban or rural or 
other type of community. On the contrary, the rule will result in only 
a minimal increase in the average product rates (less than 1 percent). 
Moreover, the rule will not have a material effect on the national 
economy.
    Prior to issuing this rule, the EPA provided numerous opportunities 
(e.g., National Air Pollution Control Techniques Advisory Committee 
proceedings; public comment period; public hearing; meetings with 
industry, trade associations, state and local air pollution 
representatives; State, local, and tribal governments; and concerned 
citizens) for consultation with interested parties. In general, State 
and local environmental agencies advocated that EPA adopt more 
stringent environmental controls. The Agency evaluated the comments and 
concerns expressed, and the final rule reflects, to the extent 
consistent with sections 112 and 183(f) of the Act, those comments and 
concerns. While small governments are not significantly or uniquely 
affected by the rule, these procedures, as well as additional public 
conferences and meetings, gave small governments an opportunity to give 
meaningful and timely input and obtain information, education, and 
advice on compliance.
    The Agency considered several regulatory options in developing the 
rule. As discussed above, the Agency has found that regulation solely 
under section 183(f) of the Act would not be consistent with the law. 
The options selected in the final rule for all subcategories of sources 
except the VMT subcategory are the least costly and least burdensome 
alternatives currently available for achieving the objectives of 
sections 112 and 183(f) of the Act. Regarding regulation of the VMT, 
the Agency notes that the cost effectiveness of controlling VOC at this 
terminal is approximately $1,050 per Mg and the cost effectiveness of 
controlling HAP is approximately $8,000 per Mg. The Agency initially 
received comments stating that the cost of controlling VOC at this 
terminal is high relative to the benefits of controlling VOC at a 
remote site in an Arctic ozone attainment area. Additionally, some 
commenters initially stated that the benefits of controlling HAP would 
not appear to justify the costs. However, the Agency has also 
considered later comments from the 

[[Page 48399]]
APSC, the State of Alaska, the Prince William Sound Regional Citizens 
Advisory Committee (a local citizens group) and private citizens in 
determining MACT/RACT for the VMT. These commenters agreed that a 
Federal rule mandating control of the primary emissions at the APSC was 
acceptable. After careful consideration of the costs, the environmental 
impacts and the comments, the Agency decided that MACT for this 
subcategory was control beyond the level of the MACT floor (see Docket 
A-44-90, Item Number IV-B-2).

List of Subjects in 40 CFR Parts 9 and 63

    Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Intergovernmental 
relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Tank vessel 
standards.

    Dated: July 28, 1995.
Carol M. Browner,
Administrator.
    For reasons set out in the preamble, title 40, chapter I of the 
Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows:

PART 9--[AMENDED]

    1. The authority citation for part 9 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 7 U.S.C. 135 et seq., 135-136y; 15 U.S.C. 2001, 2003, 
2005, 2006, 2601-2671; 21 U.S.C. 331j, 346a, 348; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 33 
U.S.C. 1251 et seq., 1311, 1313d, 1314, 1321, 1326, 1330, 1344, 
1345(d) and (e), 1361; E.O. 11735, 38 FR 21243, 3 CFR, 1971-1975 
Comp. p. 973; 42 U.S.C. 241, 242b, 243, 246, 300f, 300g, 300g-1, 
300g-2, 300g-3, 300g-4, 300g-5, 300g-6, 300j-1, 300j-2, 300j-3, 
300j-4, 300j-9, 1857 et seq., 6901-6992k, 7401-7671q, 7542, 9601-
9657, 11023, 11048.

    2. Section 9.1 is amended by adding a new entry to the table under 
the indicated heading in numerical order to read as follows:


Sec. 9.1  OMB approvals under the Paperwork Reduction Act.

* * * * *

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   40 CFR citation                      OMB control No. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        
*                  *                  *                  *              
                  *                  *                  *               
National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air                          
 Pollutants for Source Categories.                                      
                                                                        
                                                                        
*                  *                  *                  *              
                  *                  *                  *               
63.563-63.567.......................................           2060-0289
                                                                        
                                                                        
*                  *                  *                  *              
                  *                  *                  *               
------------------------------------------------------------------------

PART 63--[AMENDED]

    1. The authority citation for part 63 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.

    2. By adding a new subpart Y consisting of Secs. 63.560 through 
63.567 to read as follows:
Subpart Y--National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Loading 
Operations
Sec.
63.560   Applicability and designation of affected source.
63.561   Definitions.
63.562   Standards.
63.563   Compliance and performance testing.
63.564   Monitoring requirements.
63.565   Test methods and procedures.
63.566   Construction and reconstruction.
63.567   Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

Subpart Y--National Emission Standards for Marine Tank Vessel Tank 
Loading Operations


Sec. 63.560  Applicability and designation of affected source.

    (a) Maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards.
    (1) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards 
in Sec. 63.562(b) and (d) of this subpart are applicable to existing 
and new sources with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, as that term is 
defined in Sec. 63.561, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this 
section, and are applicable to new sources with emissions less than 10 
and 25 tons, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561, except as 
specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
    (2) Existing sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons are 
not subject to the emissions standards in Sec. 63.562(b) and (d).
    (3) The recordkeeping requirements of Sec. 63.567(j)(4) and the 
emission estimation requirements of Sec. 63.565(l) apply to existing 
sources with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons.
    (b) Reasonably available control technology (RACT) standards.
    (1) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to RACT standards in 
Sec. 63.562(c) and (d) of this subpart are applicable to sources with 
throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, as that term is defined in 
Sec. 63.561, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
    (2) Sources with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M 
barrels, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561, are not subject to the 
emissions standards in Sec. 63.562(c) and (d).
    (c) General Provisions applicability. Owners or operators of 
affected sources, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561, of this 
subpart must comply with the requirements of subpart A of this part in 
accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this 
subpart in Table 1 of this section.
    (d) Exemptions from MACT and RACT standards.
    (1) This subpart does not apply to emissions resulting from marine 
tank vessel loading operations, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561, 
of commodities with vapor pressures less than 10.3 kilopascals (kPa) 
(1.5 pounds per square inch, absolute) (psia) at standard conditions, 
20 deg.C and 760 millimeters Hg (mm Hg).
    (2) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards 
in Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3) and (4) and to the RACT standards in 
Sec. 63.562(c)(3) and (4) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading 
operations where emissions are reduced by using a vapor balancing 
system, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561. The provisions 
pertaining to the vapor collection system, ship-to-shore compatibility, 
and vapor tightness of marine tank vessels in Sec. 63.562(b)(1) and 
(c)(2) do apply.
    (3) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards 
in Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) do not apply to marine tank vessel 
loading operations that are contiguous with refinery operations at 
sources subject to and complying with subpart CC of this part, National 
Emissions Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants from Petroleum 
Refineries, except to the extent that any such provisions of this 
subpart are made applicable by subpart CC of this part.

[[Page 48400]]

    (4) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards 
in Sec. 63.562(b) and (d) do not apply to benzene emissions from marine 
tank vessel loading operations that are subject to and complying with 
40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, National Emissions Standards for Benzene 
Emissions from Benzene Transfer Operations, except that benzene 
emissions or other HAP emissions (i.e., nonbenzene HAP emissions) from 
marine tank vessel loading operations that are not subject to subpart 
BB are subject to the provisions of this subpart.
    (5) The provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards 
in Sec. 63.562(b) and (d) do not apply to marine tank vessel loading 
operations at loading berths that only transfer liquids containing 
organic HAP as impurities, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561.
    (6) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to marine tank 
vessel loading operations at existing offshore loading terminals, as 
that term is defined in Sec. 63.561.
    (7) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to ballasting 
operations, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561.
    (e) Compliance dates.
    (1) MACT standards compliance dates, except the Valdez Marine 
Terminal (VMT) source.
    (i) A new or existing source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, 
except the VMT source, and a new source with emissions less than 10 and 
25 tons, except the VMT source, that has an initial startup date on or 
before September 20, 1999 shall comply with the provisions of this 
subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in Sec. 63.562(b) no later 
than 4 years after the effective date.
    (ii) A new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, except the VMT 
source, and a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, 
except the VMT source, that has an initial startup date after September 
20, 1999 shall comply with provisions of this subpart pertaining to the 
MACT standards in Sec. 63.562(b) immediately upon startup.
    (iii) A source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons that 
increases its emissions subsequent to September 20, 1999 such that it 
becomes a source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall comply with the 
provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT standards in 
Sec. 63.562(b) within 3 years following the exceedance of the threshold 
level.
    (2) RACT standards compliance dates, except the VMT source.
    (i) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, 
except the VMT source, with an initial startup date on or before 
September 21, 1998 shall comply with Sec. 63.562(c)(1) no later than 2 
years after the effective date.
    (ii) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, 
except the VMT source, with an initial startup date on or before 
September 21, 1998 shall comply with the provisions of this subpart 
pertaining to the RACT standards in Sec. 63.562(c) other than 
Sec. 63.562(c)(1), no later than 3 years after the effective date.
    (iii) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, 
except the VMT source, with an initial startup date after September 21, 
1998 shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the 
RACT standards in Sec. 63.562(c) immediately upon startup.
    (iv) A source with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M 
barrels that increases its throughput subsequent to September 21, 1998 
such that it becomes a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M 
barrels shall comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to 
the RACT standards in Sec. 63.562(c) within 3 years following the 
exceedance of the threshold levels.
    (v) A source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels may 
apply for approval from the Administrator for an extension of the 
compliance date of up to 1 year if it can demonstrate that the 
additional time is necessary for installation of the control device.
    (3) MACT and RACT compliance dates for the VMT source.
    The VMT source, as that term is defined in Sec. 63.561, shall 
comply with the provisions of this subpart pertaining to the MACT and 
RACT standards in Sec. 63.562(d) no later than 30 months after the 
effective date.

                     Table 1 of Sec. 63.560.--General Provisions Applicability to Subpart Y                     
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Applies to affected                                                                    
       Reference        sources in subpart Y                                Comment                             
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
63.1(a)(1)............  Yes.................  Additional terms are defined in Sec. 63.561; when overlap between 
                                               subparts A and Y occurs, subpart Y takes precedence.             
63.1(a)(2)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(4)............  Yes.................  Subpart Y clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart
                                               A to sources subject to subpart Y in this table.                 
.63.1(a)(5)...........  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.1(a)(6)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(7)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(8)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(9)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.1(a)(10)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(11)...........  Yes.................  Sec. 63.567(a) also allows report submissions via facsimile and on
                                               electronic media.                                                
63.1(a)(12)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(13)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(a)(14)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(b)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(b)(2)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.1(b)(3)............  No..................  Sec. 63.560 specifies applicability.                              
63.1(c)(1)............  Yes.................  Subpart Y clarifies the applicability of each paragraph in subpart
                                               A to sources subject to subpart Y in this table.                 
63.1(c)(2)............  Yes.................  Subpart Y is not applicable to area sources.                      
63.1(c)(3)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.1(c)(4)............  Yes                   ..................................................................

[[Page 48401]]
                                                                                                                
63.1(c)(5)............  No..................  Sec. 63.560 specifies applicability.                              
63.1(d)...............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.1(e)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.2..................  Yes.................  Additional terms are defined in Sec. 63.561; when overlap between 
                                               subparts A and Y occurs, subpart Y takes precedence.             
63.3..................  Yes.................  Other units used in subpart Y are defined in the text of subpart  
                                               Y.                                                               
63.4(a)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.4(a)(2)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.4(a)(3)............  Yes                                                                                     
63.4(a)(4)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.4(a)(5)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.4(b)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.4(c)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(a)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(b)(1)(i).........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(b)(1)(ii)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.5(b)(2)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.5(b)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(b)(4)-(5)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.5(b)(6)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(c)...............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.5(d)(1)(i).........  No..................  See Sec. 63.566(b)(2).                                            
63.5(d)(1)(ii)(A)(H)..  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(d)(1)(ii)(I).....  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.5(d)(1)(ii)(J).....  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(d)(1)(iii).......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(d)(2)-(4)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(e)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(f)(1)(i) and (ii)  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.5(f)(1)(iii) and     No                    ..................................................................
 (iv).                                                                                                          
63.5(f)(2)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.566(c).                                               
63.6(a)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(a)(2)............  No..................  Sec. 63.560 specifies applicability.                              
63.6(b)(1)-(5)........  No..................  Sec. 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.            
63.6(b)(6)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.6(b)(7)............  No..................  Sec. 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.            
63.6(c)(1)............  No..................  Sec. 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.            
63.6(c)(2)............  No                    ..................................................................
63.6(c)(3)-(4)........  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.6(c)(5)............  No..................  Sec. 63.560(e) specifies compliance dates for sources.            
63.6(d)...............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.6(e)...............  No..................  See Sec. 63.562(e).                                               
63.6(f)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(f)(2)(i).........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(f)(2)(ii)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.6(f)(2)(iii).......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(f)(2)(iv)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(f)(2)(v).........  No..................  See Sec. 63.562(e)(1).                                            
63.6(f)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(g)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(h)...............  No..................  No opacity monitoring is required under subpart Y.                
63.6(i)(1)-(3)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(i)(4)(i)(A)......  No                    ..................................................................
63.6(i)(4)(i)(B)......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(i)(4)(ii)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.6(i)(5)-(12).......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(i)(13)...........  No                    ..................................................................
63.6(i)(14)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(i)(15)...........  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.6(i)(16)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.6(j)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(a)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(a)(2)(i)-(iv)....  No..................  See Sec. 63.563(b)(1).                                            
63.7(a)(2)(v).........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(a)(2)(vi)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.7(a)(2)(vii)-(viii)  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.7(a)(2)(ix)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.7(a)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................

[[Page 48402]]
                                                                                                                
63.7(b)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(c)(1)-(2)........  Yes.................  The site-specific test plan must be submitted only if requested by
                                               the Administrator.                                               
63.7(c)(3)(i)-(ii)(A).  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(c)(3)(ii)(B).....  No..................  See Sec. 63.565(m)(2).                                            
63.7(c)(3)(iii).......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(c)(4)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(d)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(e)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(f)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(g)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(g)(2)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.7(g)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.7(h)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(a)(1)-(2)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(a)(3)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.8(a)(4)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(b)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(b)(2)............  No                    ..................................................................
63.8(b)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(c)(1)(i).........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(c)(1)(ii)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.8(c)(1)(iii).......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(c)(2)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(c)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(c)(4)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.564(a)(3).                                            
63.8(c)(5)............  No                    ..................................................................
63.8(c)(6)............  Yes.................  See also performance specifications for continuous monitoring     
                                               systems Sec. 63.564(a)(4).                                       
63.8(c)(7)(i)(A)-(B)..  Yes.................  See also Sec. 63.564(a)(5).                                       
63.8(c)(7)(i)(C)......  No                    ..................................................................
63.8(c)(7)(ii)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(c)(8)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.564(a)(5).                                            
63.8(d)...............  No..................  See Sec. 63.562(e)(2)(iv).                                        
63.8(e)(1)-(4)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(e)(5)(i).........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(e)(5)(ii)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.8(f)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(f)(2)(i)-(vii)...  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(f)(2)(viii)......  No                    ..................................................................
63.8(f)(2)(ix)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(f)(3)-(6)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.8(g)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(a)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(a)(2)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(a)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(a)(4)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(b)(1)(i).........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(b)(1)(ii)........  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(b)(1)                                             
63.9(b)(1)(iii).......  Yes                                                                                     
63.9(b)(2)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(b)(2).                                            
63.9(b)(3)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(b)(3).                                            
63.9(b)(4)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(b)(4).                                            
63.9(b)(5)............  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(b)(4).                                            
63.9(c)...............  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(c).                                               
63.9(d)...............  No                    ..................................................................
63.9(e)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(f)...............  No                    ..................................................................
63.9(g)(1)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(g)(2)............  No                    ..................................................................
63.9(g)(3)............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(h)(1)-(3)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(h)(4)............  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.9(h)(5)-(6)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(i)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.9(j)...............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(a)..............  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(b)(1)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(b)(2)(i)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.10(b)(2) (ii)-(iii)  Yes                   ..................................................................

[[Page 48403]]
                                                                                                                
63.10(b)(2)(iv).......  No                    ..................................................................
63.10(b)(2)(v)........  No                    ..................................................................
63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(xiv).  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(b)(3)...........  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(j)(4).                                            
63.10(c)(1)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(c)(2)-(4).......  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.10(c)(5)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(c)(6)...........  No..................  See Sec. 63.564(a)(5).                                            
63.10(c)(7)...........  No                    ..................................................................
63.10(c)(8)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(c)(9)...........  No..................  Reserved.                                                         
63.10(c)(10)-(13).....  Yes                                                                                     
63.10(c)(14)..........  No..................  See Sec. 63.562(d)(2)(iv).                                        
63.10(c)(15)..........  No                    ..................................................................
63.10(d)(1)-(2).......  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(d)(3)...........  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(d).                                               
63.10(d)(4)...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(d)(5)...........  No                    ..................................................................
63.(10)(e)(1).........  Yes                                                                                     
63.10(e)(2)(i)........  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.10(e)(2)(ii).......  No                    ..................................................................
63.10(e)(3)(i)-(v)....  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(e)                                                
63.10(e)(3)(vi).......  Yes                                                                                     
63.10(e)(3)(vii)-(viii  No..................  See Sec. 63.567(e)                                                
 ).                                                                                                             
63.10(e)(4)...........  No                                                                                      
63.10(f)..............  Yes                                                                                     
 63.11................  Yes                   ..................................................................
63.12-63.15...........  Yes                   ..................................................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Sec. 63.561 Definitions.

    As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have 
the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act or in subpart A of this 
part.
    Affected source means a source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, a 
new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, a new major source 
offshore loading terminal, a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 
200 M barrels, or the VMT source, that is subject to the emissions 
standards in Sec. 63.562.
    Air pollution control device or control device means a combustion 
device or vapor recovery device.
    Ballasting operations means the introduction of ballast water into 
a cargo tank of a tankship or oceangoing barge.
    Baseline operating parameter means a minimum or maximum value of a 
process parameter, established for a control device during a 
performance test where the control device is meeting the required 
emissions reduction or established as the manufacturer recommended 
operating parameter, that, if achieved by itself or in combination with 
one or more other operating parameters, determines if a control device 
is operating properly.
    Boiler means a device that combusts any fuel and produces steam or 
heats water or any other heat transfer medium. This term includes any 
duct burner that combusts fuel and is part of a combined cycle system.
    Car-seal means a seal that is placed on a device used to change the 
position of a valve (e.g., from open to closed) in such a way that the 
position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal.
    Combustion device means all equipment, including, but not limited 
to, thermal incinerators, catalytic incinerators, flares, boilers, and 
process heaters used for combustion or destruction of organic vapors.
    Commenced means, with respect to construction of an air pollution 
control device, that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous 
program of construction or that an owner or operator has entered into a 
contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable 
time, a continuous program of construction.
    Commodity means a distinct product that a source loads onto marine 
tank vessels.
    Continuous means, with respect to monitoring, reading and recording 
(either in hard copy or computer readable form) of data values measured 
at least once every 15 minutes.
    Crude oil means a naturally occurring mixture consisting 
predominantly of hydrocarbons and/or sulfur, nitrogen, and oxygen 
derivatives of hydrocarbons that is removed from the earth in a liquid 
state or is capable of being so removed.
    Exceedance or Variance means, with respect to parametric 
monitoring, the operating parameter of the air pollution control device 
that is monitored as an indication of proper operation of the control 
device is outside the acceptable range or limits for the baseline 
parameter given in Sec. 63.563(b)(4) through (9).
    Excess emissions means, with respect to emissions monitoring, the 
concentration of the outlet stream of the air pollution control device 
is outside the acceptable range or limits for the baseline 
concentration given in Sec. 63.563(b)(4) through (9).
    Flow indicator means a device that indicates whether gas flow is 
present in a line or vent system.
    Gasoline means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/
alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kPa (4.0 psia) or 
greater, that is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.
    Impurity means HAP substances that are present in a commodity or 
that are produced in a process coincidentally with the primary product 
or commodity and that are 0.5 percent total HAP by weight or less. An 
impurity does not serve a useful purpose in the production 

[[Page 48404]]
or use of the primary product or commodity and is not isolated.
    Leak means a reading of 10,000 parts per million volume (ppmv) or 
greater as methane that is determined using the test methods in Method 
21, appendix A of part 60 of this chapter.
    Lightering or Lightering operation means the offshore transfer of a 
bulk liquid cargo from one marine tank vessel to another vessel.
    Loading berth means the loading arms, pumps, meters, shutoff 
valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves necessary to fill 
marine tank vessels. The loading berth includes those items necessary 
for an offshore loading terminal.
    Loading cycle means the time period from the beginning of filling a 
single marine tank vessel until commodity flow to the marine tank 
vessel ceases.
    Maintenance allowance means a period of time that an affected 
source is allowed to perform maintenance on the loading berth without 
controlling emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations.
    Marine tank vessel loading operation means any operation under 
which a commodity is bulk loaded onto a marine tank vessel from a 
terminal, which may include the loading of multiple marine tank vessels 
during one loading operation. Marine tank vessel loading operations do 
not include refueling of marine tank vessels.
    Marine vessel or Marine tank vessel means any tank ship or tank 
barge that transports liquid product such as gasoline or crude oil in 
bulk.
    Nonvapor-tight means any marine tank vessel that does not pass the 
required vapor-tightness test.
    Offshore loading terminal means a location that has at least one 
loading berth that is 0.81 km (0.5 miles) or more from the shore that 
is used for mooring a marine tank vessel and loading liquids from 
shore.
    Primary fuel means the fuel that provides the principal heat input 
to the device. To be considered primary, the fuel must be able to 
sustain operation of the device without the addition of other fuels.
    Process heater means a device that transfers heat liberated by 
burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except 
water that are heated to produce steam.
    Recovery device means an individual unit of equipment, including, 
but not limited to, a carbon adsorber, condenser/refrigeration unit, or 
absorber that is capable of and used for the purpose of removing vapors 
and recovering liquids or chemicals.
    Routine loading means, with respect to the VMT source, marine tank 
vessel loading operations that occur as part of normal facility 
operation over a loading berth when no loading berths are inoperable 
due to maintenance.
    Secondary fuel means any fuel other than the primary fuel. The 
secondary fuel provides supplementary heat in addition to the heat 
provided by the primary fuel and is generally fired through a burner 
other than the primary burner.
    Source(s) means any location where at least one dock or loading 
berth is bulk loading onto marine tank vessels, except offshore 
drilling platforms and lightering operations.
    Source(s) with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons means major 
source(s) having aggregate actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessel 
loading operations at all loading berths as follows:
    (1) Prior to the compliance date, of less than 9.1 Mg (10 tons) of 
each individual HAP calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after 
September 19, 1997 and less than 22.7 Mg (25 tons) of all HAP combined 
calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997, 
as determined by emission estimation in Sec. 63.565(l) of this subpart; 
and
    (2) After the compliance date, of less than 9.1 Mg (10 tons) of 
each individual HAP calculated annually after September 20, 1999 and 
less than 22.7 Mg (25 tons) of all HAP combined calculated annually 
after September 20, 1999, as determined by emission estimation in 
Sec. 63.565(l) of this subpart.
    Source(s) with emissions of 10 or 25 tons means major source(s) 
having aggregate actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessels loading 
operations at all loading berths as follows:
    (1) Prior to the compliance date, emissions of 9.1 Mg (10 tons) or 
more of each individual HAP calculated on a 24-month annual average 
basis after September 19, 1997 or of 22.7 Mg (25 tons) or more of all 
HAP combined calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after 
September 19, 1997, as determined by emission estimation in 
Sec. 63.565(l); or
    (2) After the compliance date, emissions of 9.1 Mg (10 tons) or 
more of each individual HAP calculated annually after September 20, 
1999 or of 22.7 Mg (25 tons) or more of all HAP combined calculated 
annually after September 20, 1999, as determined by emission estimation 
in Sec. 63.565(l).
    Source(s) with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M barrels 
means source(s) having aggregate loading from marine tank vessel 
loading operations at all loading berths as follows:
    (1) Prior to the compliance date, of less than 1.6 billion liters 
(10 million (M) barrels) of gasoline on a 24-month annual average basis 
and of less than 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) of crude oil on a 
24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996; and
    (2) After the compliance date, of less than 1.6 billion liters (10 
M barrels) of gasoline annually and of less than 32 billion liters (200 
M barrels) of crude oil annually after September 21, 1998.
    Source(s) with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels means 
source(s) having aggregate loading from marine tank vessel loading 
operations at all loading berths as follows:
    (1) Prior to the compliance date, of 1.6 billion liters (10 M 
barrels) or more of gasoline on a 24-month annual average basis or of 
32 billion liters (200 M barrels) or more of crude oil on a 24-month 
annual average basis after September 19, 1996; or
    (2) After the compliance date, of 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) 
or more of gasoline annually or of 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) or 
more of crude oil annually after September 21, 1998.
    Terminal means all loading berths at any land or sea based 
structure(s) that loads liquids in bulk onto marine tank vessels.
    Twenty-four-month (24-month) annual average basis means annual HAP 
emissions, with respect to MACT standards, or annual loading 
throughput, with respect to RACT standards, from marine tank vessel 
loading operations averaged over a 24-month period.
    Valdez Marine Terminal (VMT) source means the major source that is 
permitted under the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act (TAPAA) (43 
U.S.C. Sec. 1651 et seq.). The source is located in Valdez, Alaska in 
Prince William Sound.
    Vapor balancing system means a vapor collection system or piping 
system that is designed to collect organic HAP vapors displaced from 
marine tank vessels during marine tank vessel loading operations and 
that is designed to route the collected organic HAP vapors to the 
storage vessel from which the liquid being loaded originated or to 
compress collected organic HAP vapors and commingle with the raw feed 
of a process unit.
    Vapor collection system means any equipment located at the source, 
i.e., at the terminal, that is not open to the atmosphere, that is 
composed of piping, connections, and flow inducing devices, and that is 
used for containing and transporting vapors displaced during 

[[Page 48405]]
the loading of marine tank vessels to a control device or for vapor 
balancing. This does not include the vapor collection system that is 
part of any marine vessel vapor collection manifold system.
    Vapor-tight marine vessel means a marine tank vessel that has 
demonstrated within the preceding 12 months to have no leaks. A marine 
tank vessel loaded at less than atmospheric pressure is assumed to be 
vapor tight for the purpose of this standard.
    Volatile organic compounds or VOC is as defined in 40 CFR 51.100(s) 
of this chapter.


Sec. 63.562  Standards.

    (a) The emissions limitations in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of 
this section apply during marine tank vessel loading operations.
    (b) MACT standards, except for the VMT source.
    (1)(i) Vapor collection system of the terminal. The owner or 
operator of a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons and an 
existing or new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall equip each 
terminal with a vapor collection system that is designed to collect HAP 
vapors displaced from marine tank vessels during marine tank vessel 
loading operations and to prevent HAP vapors collected at one loading 
berth from passing through another loading berth to the atmosphere, 
except for those commodities exempted under Sec. 63.560(d).
    (ii) Ship-to-shore compatibility. The owner or operator of a new 
source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons and an existing or new 
source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall limit marine tank vessel 
loading operations to those vessels that are equipped with vapor 
collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor 
collection system, except for those commodities exempted under 
Sec. 63.560(d).
    (iii) Vapor tightness of marine vessels. The owner or operator of a 
new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons and an existing or 
new source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons shall limit marine tank 
vessel loading operations to those vessels that are vapor tight and to 
those vessels that are connected to the vapor collection system, except 
for those commodities exempted under Sec. 63.560(d).
    (2) MACT standards for existing sources with emissions of 10 or 25 
tons. The owner or operator of an existing source with emissions of 10 
or 25 tons, except offshore loading terminals and the VMT source, shall 
reduce captured HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading 
operations by 97 weight-percent, as determined using methods in 
Sec. 63.565 (d) and (l).
    (3) MACT standards for new sources. The owner or operator of a new 
source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons or a new source with 
emissions of 10 or 25 tons, except offshore loading terminals and the 
VMT source, shall reduce HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading 
operations by 98 weight-percent, as determined using methods in 
Sec. 63.565 (d) and (l).
    (4) MACT standards for new major source offshore loading terminals. 
The owner or operator of a new major source offshore loading terminal 
shall reduce HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations 
by 95 weight-percent, as determined using methods in Sec. 63.565 (d) 
and (l).
    (5) Prevention of carbon adsorber emissions during regeneration. 
The owner or operator of a source subject to paragraph (b)(2), (3), or 
(4) shall prevent HAP emissions from escaping to the atmosphere from 
the regeneration of the carbon bed when using a carbon adsorber to 
control HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations.
    (6) Maintenance allowance for loading berths. The owner or operator 
of a source subject to paragraph (b)(2), (3) or (4), may apply for 
approval to the Administrator for a maintenance allowance for loading 
berths based on a percent of annual throughput or annual marine tank 
vessel loading operation time for commodities not exempted in 
Sec. 63.560(d). The owner or operator shall maintain records for all 
maintenance performed on the air pollution control equipment. The 
Administrator will consider the following in approving the maintenance 
allowance:
    (i) The owner or operator expects to be in violation of the 
emissions standards due to maintenance;
    (ii) Due to conditions beyond the reasonable control of the owner 
or operator, compliance with the emissions standards during maintenance 
would result in unreasonable economic hardship;
    (iii) The economic hardship cannot be justified by the resulting 
air quality benefit;
    (iv) The owner or operator has given due consideration to 
curtailing marine vessel loading operations during maintenance;
    (v) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will 
endeavor to reduce emissions from other loading berths that are 
controlled as well as from the loading berth the owner or operator is 
seeking the maintenance allowance; and
    (vi) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will 
monitor and report emissions from the loading berth to which the 
maintenance allowance applies.
    (c) RACT standards, except the VMT source.
    (1) Commencement of construction. The owner or operator of a source 
with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT 
source, with an initial startup date on or before September 21, 1998 
shall provide the Agency no later than 2 years after the effective date 
with proof that it has commenced construction of its vapor collection 
system and air pollution control device.
    (2) (i) Vapor collection system of the terminal. The owner or 
operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels 
shall equip each terminal with a vapor collection system that is 
designed to collect VOC vapors displaced from marine tank vessels 
during loading and to prevent VOC vapors collected at one loading berth 
from passing through another loading berth to the atmosphere, except 
for those commodities exempted under Sec. 63.560(d).
    (ii) Ship-to-shore compatibility. The owner or operator of a source 
with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall limit marine 
tank vessel loading operations to those vessels that are equipped with 
vapor collection equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor 
collection system, except for those commodities exempted under 
Sec. 63.560(d).
    (iii) Vapor tightness of marine vessels. The owner or operator of a 
source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels shall limit 
marine tank vessel loading operations to those vessels that are vapor-
tight and to those vessels that are connected to the vapor collection 
system, except for those commodities exempted under Sec. 63.560(d).
    (3) RACT standard for sources with throughput of 10 M or 200 M 
barrels, except the VMT source. The owner or operator of a source with 
throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, 
shall reduce captured VOC emissions from marine tank vessel loading 
operations by 98 weight-percent when using a combustion device or 
reduce captured VOC emissions by 95 weight-percent when using a 
recovery device, as determined using methods in Sec. 63.565(d) and (l).
    (4) The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M 
barrels or 200 M barrels, except the VMT source, may meet the 
requirements of paragraph (c)(3) by reducing gasoline loading 

[[Page 48406]]
emissions to, at most, 1,000 ppmv outlet VOC concentration.
    (5) Prevention of carbon adsorber emissions during regeneration. 
The owner or operator of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 
200 M barrels shall prevent HAP emissions from escaping to the 
atmosphere from the regeneration of the carbon bed when using a carbon 
adsorber to control HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading 
operations.
    (6) Maintenance allowance for loading berths. The owner or operator 
of a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels may apply 
for approval to the Administrator for a maintenance allowance for 
loading berths based on a percent of annual throughput or annual marine 
tank vessel loading operation time for commodities not exempted in 
Sec. 63.560(d). The owner or operator shall maintain records for all 
maintenance performed on the air pollution control equipment. The 
Administrator will consider the following in approving the maintenance 
allowance:
    (i) The owner or operator expects to be in violation of the 
emissions standards due to maintenance;
    (ii) Due to conditions beyond the reasonable control of the owner 
or operator, compliance with the emissions standards during maintenance 
would result in unreasonable economic hardship;
    (iii) The economic hardship cannot be justified by the resulting 
air quality benefit;
    (iv) The owner or operator has given due consideration to 
curtailing marine vessel loading operations during maintenance;
    (v) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will 
endeavor to reduce emissions from other loading berths that are 
controlled as well as from the loading berth the owner or operator is 
seeking the maintenance allowance; and
    (vi) During the maintenance allowance, the owner or operator will 
monitor and report emissions from the loading berth to which the 
maintenance allowance applies.
    (d) MACT and RACT standards for the VMT source.
    (1) (i) Vapor collection system of the terminal. The owner or 
operator of the VMT source shall equip each terminal subject under 
paragraph (d)(2) with a vapor collection system that is designed to 
collect HAP vapors displaced from marine tank vessels during marine 
tank vessel loading operations and to prevent HAP vapors collected at 
one loading berth from passing through another loading berth to the 
atmosphere, except for those commodities exempted under Sec. 63.560(d).
    (ii) Ship-to-shore compatibility. The owner or operator of the VMT 
source shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations at berths 
subject under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to those vessels that 
are equipped with vapor collection equipment that is compatible with 
the terminal's vapor collection system, except for those commodities 
exempted under Sec. 63.560(d).
    (iii) Vapor tightness of marine vessels. The owner or operator of 
the VMT source shall limit marine tank vessel loading operations at 
berths subject under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to those vessels 
that are vapor-tight and to those vessels that are connected to the 
vapor collection system, except for those commodities exempted under 
Sec. 63.560(d).
    (2) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall reduce captured 
HAP and VOC emissions by 98 weight-percent, as determined using methods 
in Sec. 63.565(d) and (l) for loading berths subject under this 
paragraph according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv):
    (i) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall equip at least 
two loading berths and any additional berths indicated pursuant to 
paragraph (d)(2)(iii) with a vapor collection system and air pollution 
control device and shall load marine tank vessels over loading berths 
equipped with a vapor collection system and control device to the 
maximum extent practicable. The owner or operator shall equip all 
loading berths that will be used for routine loading after March 19, 
1998 with a vapor collection system and control device if the annual 
average daily loading rate for all loading berths exceeds the limits in 
paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section.
    (A) For 1995, 1,630,000 barrels per day; and
    (B) For 1996, 1,546,000 barrels per day; and
    (C) For 1997, 1,445,000 barrels per day.
    (ii) Maximum extent practicable means that the total annual average 
daily loading over all loading berths not equipped with a vapor 
collection system and control device shall not exceed the totals in 
paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B):
    (A) Loading allowances for marine tank vessel loading operations at 
loading berths not equipped with control devices. The following maximum 
annual average daily loading rate for routine loading at loading berths 
not equipped with control devices in any of the following years shall 
not exceed:
    (a) For 1998, 275,000 barrels per day;
    (b) For 1999, 205,000 barrels per day;
    (c) For 2000, 118,000 barrels per day;
    (d) For 2001, 39,000 barrels per day; and
    (e) For 2002 and subsequent years, no marine tank vessel loading 
operations shall be performed at berths not equipped with a vapor 
collection system and control device, except as allowed for maintenance 
under paragraph (B).
    (B) Maintenance allowances for loading berths subject under 
paragraph (d)(2)(i). Beginning in the year 2000, the owner or operator 
of the VMT source may have a maximum of 40 calendar days per calendar 
year use of loading berths not equipped with a vapor collection system 
and control device, in accordance with the limits in paragraph 
(d)(2)(ii)(B)(a), (b), or (c), to allow for maintenance of loading 
berths subject to paragraph (d)(2)(i). Beginning in the year 2002, the 
total annual average daily loading of crude oil over all loading berths 
not equipped with a vapor collection system and control device shall 
not exceed the amount stated in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(b). The 40 days 
allowed for maintenance shall be converted into a compliance measure of 
annual average daily loading over the loading berths not equipped with 
a vapor collection system and control device as follows:
    (a) If the total annual average daily volume of crude oil loaded at 
the facility was greater than or equal to 1,100,000 barrels per day in 
the prior calendar year, the maintenance allowance shall not exceed an 
annual average daily loading of 60,000 barrels per day.
    (b) If the total annual average daily volume of crude oil loaded at 
the facility was less than 1,100,000 barrels per day and greater than 
or equal to 550,000 barrels per day in the prior calendar year, the 
maintenance allowance for the calendar year shall not exceed Q<INF>m:
[GRAPHIC][TIFF OMITTED]TR19SE95.000

Where:

Q<INF>m = maintenance allowance, barrels per day
P = prior calendar year's average daily volume of crude oil loaded at 
the facility, barrels per day.

    (c) If the total annual average daily volume of crude oil loaded at 
the facility was less than 550,000 barrels per day in the prior 
calendar year, there shall be no maintenance allowance.
    (iii) If the average daily loading rate for the loading berths not 
equipped with a vapor collection system and control device is greater 
than the combined 

[[Page 48407]]
amounts in any year listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (C) and 
(d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B), then the owner or operator of the VMT source 
shall equip all loading berths used for routine loading with a vapor 
collection system and control device within 2 years of the exceedance 
except that in an emergency situation the Administrator may, instead of 
requiring controls, approve an alternative plan to reduce loading over 
the unequipped berth(s) to a level which will ensure compliance with 
the applicable limit. Beginning in the year 2002, the owner or operator 
of the VMT source shall equip all uncontrolled loading berths used for 
marine tank vessel loading operations beyond the maintenance allowance 
in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) with a vapor collection system and control 
device.
    (iv) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall develop a 
program to communicate to relevant facility operations and marine 
transportation personnel and engage their active and consistent 
participation in honoring the intent and goal of minimizing loaded 
volumes over the unequipped berths and maximizing the loaded volumes at 
the berths equipped with a vapor collection system and control device 
to prevent exceedance of the load volume limits in paragraphs 
(d)(2)(ii)(A) and (B). This program is to be presented semi-annually 
during the first year of compliance and annually thereafter until the 
use of unequipped berths for routine loading is no longer required.
    (3) The owner or operator of the VMT source shall submit annual 
reports on or before January 31 of each year to the Administrator 
certifying the annual average daily loading rate for the previous 
calendar year. Beginning on January 31, 1996, for the reported year 
1995, the annual report shall specify the annual average daily loading 
rate over all loading berths. Beginning on January 31, 1999, for the 
reported year 1998, the annual report shall specify the annual average 
daily loading rate over all loading berths, over each loading berth 
equipped with a vapor collection system and control device, and over 
each loading berth not equipped with a vapor collection system and 
control device. The annual average daily loading rate under this 
section is calculated as the total amount of crude oil loaded during 
the calendar year divided by 365 days or 366 days, as appropriate.
    (e) Operation and maintenance requirements for air pollution 
control equipment and monitoring equipment for affected sources. At all 
times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, owners 
or operators of affected sources shall operate and maintain a source, 
including associated air pollution control equipment, in a manner 
consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for 
minimizing emissions. Determination of whether acceptable operation and 
maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information 
available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited 
to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, 
review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the 
source.
    (1) The Administrator will determine compliance with design, 
equipment, work practice, or operational emission standards by 
evaluating an owner or operator's conformance with operation and 
maintenance requirements.
    (2) The owner or operator of an affected source shall develop and 
implement a written operation and maintenance plan that describes in 
detail a program of corrective action for varying (i.e., exceeding 
baseline parameters) air pollution control equipment and monitoring 
equipment, based on monitoring requirements in Sec. 63.564, used to 
comply with these emissions standards. The plan shall also identify all 
routine or otherwise predictable continuous monitoring system 
(thermocouples, pressure transducers, continuous emissions monitors 
(CEMS), etc.) variances.
    (i) The plan shall specify procedures (preventive maintenance) to 
be followed to ensure that pollution control equipment and monitoring 
equipment functions properly and variances of the control equipment and 
monitoring equipment are minimal.
    (ii) The plan shall identify all operating parameters to be 
monitored and recorded for the air pollution control device as 
indicators of proper operation and shall establish the frequency at 
which the parameters will be monitored (see Sec. 63.564).
    (iii) Owners or operators of affected sources shall incorporate a 
standardized inspection schedule for each component of the control 
device used to comply with the emissions standards in Sec. 63.562(b), 
(c), and (d). To satisfy the requirements of this paragraph, the owner 
or operator may use the inspection schedule recommended by the vendor 
of the control system or any other technical publication regarding the 
operation of the control system.
    (iv) Owners or operators shall develop and implement a continuous 
monitoring system (CMS) quality control program. The owner or operator 
shall develop and submit to the Administrator for approval upon request 
a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the CMS 
performance evaluation required in Sec. 63.8(e) of subpart A of this 
part. Each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a 
written protocol that describes procedures for initial and any 
subsequent calibration of the CMS; determination and adjustment of the 
calibration drift of the CMS; preventive maintenance of the CMS, 
including spare parts inventory; data recording, calculations, and 
reporting; and accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and 
analysis methods. The owner or operation shall maintain records of the 
procedures that are part of the quality control program developed and 
implemented for CMS.
    (3) Based on the results of the determination made under paragraph 
(e)(2), the Administrator may require that an owner or operator of an 
affected source make changes to the operation and maintenance plan for 
that source. Revisions may be required if the plan:
    (i) Does not address a variance of the air pollution control 
equipment or monitoring equipment that has occurred that increases 
emissions;
    (ii) Fails to provide for operation during a variance of the air 
pollution control equipment or the monitoring equipment in a manner 
consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; or
    (iii) Does not provide adequate procedures for correcting a 
variance of the air pollution control equipment or monitoring equipment 
as soon as reasonable.
    (4) If the operation and maintenance plan fails to address or 
inadequately addresses a variance event at the time the plan was 
initially developed, the owner or operator shall revise the operation 
and maintenance plan within 45 working days after such an event occurs. 
The revised plan shall include procedures for operating and maintaining 
the air pollution control equipment or monitoring equipment during 
similar variance events and a program for corrective action for such 
events.
    (5) The operation and maintenance plan shall be developed by the 
source's compliance date. The owner or operator shall keep the written 
operation and maintenance plan on record to be made available for 
inspection, upon request, by the Administrator for the life of the 
source. In addition, if the operation and maintenance plan is revised, 
the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions 
of the plan on record to be made available for inspection upon request 
by the Administrator for a period of 5 years after each revision to the 
plan. 

[[Page 48408]]

    (6) To satisfy the requirements of the operation and maintenance 
plan, the owner or operator may use the source's standard operating 
procedures (SOP) manual, an Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) plan, or other existing plans provided the 
alternative plans meet the requirements of this section and are made 
available for inspection when requested by the Administrator.


Sec. 63.563  Compliance and performance testing.

    (a) The following procedures shall be used to determine compliance 
with the emissions limits under Sec. 63.562(b)(1), (c)(2), and (d)(1):
    (1) Vent stream by-pass requirements for the terminal's vapor 
collection system.
    (i) In accordance with Sec. 63.562(b)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i), and 
(d)(1)(i), each valve in the terminal's vapor collection system that 
would route displaced vapors to the atmosphere, either directly or 
indirectly, shall be secured closed during marine tank vessel loading 
operations either by using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type 
configuration, or the by-pass line from the valve shall be equipped 
with a flow indicator, except for those valves used for pressure/vacuum 
relief, analyzers, instrumentation devices, sampling, and venting for 
maintenance. Marine tank vessel loading operations shall not be 
performed with open by-pass lines.
    (ii) Repairs shall be made to valves, car-seals, or closure 
mechanisms no later than 15 days after a change in the position of the 
valve or a break in the car-seal or closure mechanism is detected or no 
later than prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation, 
whichever is later.
    (2) Ship-to-shore compatibility of vapor collection systems. 
Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, 
marine tank vessel loading operations must be performed only if the 
marine tank vessel's vapor collection equipment is compatible to the 
terminal's vapor collection system; marine tank vessel loading 
operations must be performed only when the marine tank vessel's vapor 
collection equipment is connected to the terminal's vapor collection 
system, as required in Sec. 63.562(b)(1)(ii), (c)(2)(ii), and 
(d)(1)(ii).
    (3) Pressure/vacuum settings for the marine tank vessel's vapor 
collection equipment. During the initial performance test required in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected 
source shall demonstrate compliance with operating pressure 
requirements of 33 CFR 154.814 using the procedures in Sec. 63.565(b).
    (4) Vapor-tightness requirements of the marine vessel. The owner or 
operator of an affected source shall use the procedures in paragraph 
(a)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section to ensure that marine 
tank vessels are vapor tight, as required in Sec. 63.562(b)(1)(iii), 
(c)(2)(iii), and (d)(1)(iii).
    (i) Pressure test documentation for determining vapor tightness of 
the marine vessel. The owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, who 
loads commodities containing HAP not determined to be exempt under 
Sec. 63.560(d) at an affected source, shall provide a copy of the 
vapor-tightness pressure test documentation described in Sec. 63.567(i) 
for each marine tank vessel prior to loading. The date of the test 
listed in the documentation must be within the preceding 12 months, and 
the test must be conducted in accordance with the procedures in 
Sec. 63.565(c)(1). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the affected source must check vapor-tightness 
pressure test documentation for marine tank vessels loaded at positive 
pressure.
    (ii) Leak test documentation for determining vapor tightness of the 
marine vessel. If no documentation of the vapor tightness pressure test 
as described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section is available, the 
owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, who loads commodities 
containing HAP not determined to be exempt under Sec. 63.560(d) at an 
affected source, shall provide the leak test documentation described in 
Sec. 63.567(i) for each marine tank vessel prior to loading. The date 
of the test listed in the documentation must be within the preceding 12 
months, and the test must be conducted in accordance with the 
procedures in Sec. 63.565(c)(2). If the marine tank vessel has failed 
its most recent vapor-tightness leak test at that terminal, the owner 
or operator of the non-vapor-tight marine tank vessel shall provide 
documentation that the leaks detected during the previous vapor-
tightness test have been repaired and documented with a successful 
vapor-tightness leak test described in Sec. 63.565(c)(2) conducted 
during loading. If the owner or operator of the marine tank vessel can 
document that repair is technically infeasible without cleaning and gas 
freeing or dry-docking the vessel, the owner or operator of the 
affected source may load the marine tank vessel. Following the date on 
which the initial performance test is completed, an affected source 
must check the vapor-tightness leak test documentation for marine tank 
vessels loaded at positive pressure.
    (iii) Leak test performed during loading using Method 21 for 
determining vapor tightness of the marine vessel. If no documentation 
of vapor tightness as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this 
section is available, the owner or operator of a marine tank vessel, 
who loads commodities containing HAP not determined to be exempt under 
Sec. 63.560(d) at an affected source, shall perform a leak test of the 
marine tank vessel during marine tank vessel loading operation using 
the procedures described in Sec. 63.565(c)(2).
    (A) If no leak is detected, the owner or operator of a marine tank 
vessel shall complete the documentation described in Sec. 63.567(i) 
prior to departure of the vessel.
    (B) If a leak is detected, the owner or operator of the marine tank 
vessel shall document the vapor-tightness failure for the marine tank 
vessel prior to departure of the vessel. The leaking component shall be 
repaired prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation at a 
controlled terminal unless the repair is technically infeasible without 
cleaning and gas freeing or dry-docking the vessel. If the owner or 
operator of the vessel provides documentation that repair of such 
equipment is technically infeasible without cleaning and gas freeing or 
dry-docking the vessel, the equipment responsible for the leak will be 
excluded from future Method 21 tests until repairs are effected. A copy 
of this documentation shall be maintained by the owner or operator of 
the affected source. Repair of the equipment responsible for the leak 
shall occur the next time the vessel is cleaned and gas freed or dry-
docked. For repairs that are technically feasible without dry-docking 
the vessel, the owner or operator of the affected source shall not load 
the vessel again unless the marine tank vessel owner or operator can 
document that the equipment responsible for the leak has been repaired.
    (iv) Negative pressure loading. The owner or operator of an 
affected source shall ensure that a marine tank vessel is loaded with 
the product tank below atmospheric pressure (i.e., at negative gauge 
pressure). The pressure shall be measured between the facility's vapor 
connection and its manual isolation valve, and the measured pressure 
must be below atmospheric pressure. Following the date on which the 
initial performance test is completed, marine tank vessel loading 
operations for nonvapor-tight vessels must be performed below 
atmospheric pressure 

[[Page 48409]]
(i.e., at negative gauge pressure) in the product tank.
    (b) Compliance determination for affected sources. The following 
procedures shall be used to determine compliance with the emissions 
limits under Sec. 63.562(b), (c), and (d).
    (1) Initial performance test. An initial performance test shall be 
conducted using the procedures listed in Sec. 63.7 of subpart A of this 
part according to the applicability in Table 1 of Sec. 63.560, the 
procedures listed in this section, and the test methods listed in 
Sec. 63.565. The initial performance test shall be conducted within 180 
days after the compliance date for the specific affected source. During 
this performance test, sources subject to MACT standards under 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), (4), and (5) and (d)(2) shall determine the 
reduction of HAP emissions, as VOC, for all combustion or recovery 
devices other than flares. Sources subject to RACT standards under 
Sec. 63.562(c)(3), (4), and (5) and (d)(2) shall determine the 
reduction of VOC emissions for all combustion or recovery devices other 
than flares.
    (2) Performance test exemptions. An initial performance test 
required in this section and in Sec. 63.565(d) and the continuous 
monitoring in Sec. 63.564(e) is not required in the following cases:
    (i) When a boiler or process heater with a design heat input 
capacity of 44 Megawatts or less is used to comply with 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), or (4), (c)(3) or (4), or (d)(2) and the vent 
stream is used as the primary fuel or with the primary fuel;
    (ii) When a boiler or process heater with a design heat input 
capacity of 44 Megawatts or greater is used to comply with 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3) or (4), (c)(3) or (4), or (d)(2); or
    (iii) When a boiler subject to 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, 
``Hazardous Waste Burned in Industrial Furnaces,'' that has 
demonstrated 99.99 percent destruction or recovery efficiency is used 
to comply with Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), or (4), (c)(3) or (4), or 
(d)(2).
    (3) Operation and maintenance inspections. If the 3-hour or 3-cycle 
block average operating parameters in paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of 
this section, outside the acceptable operating ranges, are measured and 
recorded, i.e., variances of the pollution control device or monitoring 
equipment, the owner or operator of the affected source shall perform 
an unscheduled inspection of the control device and monitoring 
equipment and review of the parameter monitoring data. The owner or 
operator of the affected source shall perform an inspection and review 
when total parameter variance time for the control device is greater 
than 10 percent of the operating time for marine tank vessel loading 
operations on a 30-day, rolling-average basis. The inspection and 
review shall be conducted within 24 hours after passing the allowable 
variance time of 10 percent. The inspection checklist from the 
requirements of Sec. 63.562(e)(2)(iii) and the monitoring data from 
requirements in Secs. 63.562(e)(2)(ii) and 63.564 should be used to 
identify any maintenance problems that may be associated with the 
variance. The unscheduled inspection should encompass all components of 
the control device and monitoring equipment that can be inspected while 
in operation. If any maintenance problem is identified during the 
inspection, the owner or operator of the affected source must take 
corrective action (e.g., adjustments to operating controls, etc.) as 
soon as practicable. If no immediate maintenance problems are 
identified from the inspection performed while the equipment is 
operating, a complete inspection in accordance with Sec. 63.562(e)(2) 
must be conducted prior to the next marine tank vessel loading 
operation and corrective action (e.g., replacement of defective parts) 
must be taken as soon as practicable for any maintenance problem 
identified during the complete inspection.
    (4) Combustion device, except flare. During the initial performance 
test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or 
operator shall determine the efficiency of and/or the outlet VOC 
concentration from the combustion device used to comply with 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) using the 
test methods in Sec. 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with 
paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.
    (i) Outlet VOC concentration limit for required percent combustion 
efficiency. The owner or operator shall establish as an operating 
parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described 
in Sec. 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average 
outlet VOC concentration as determined in Sec. 63.564(e)(1) no more 
than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
    (ii) Baseline temperature for required percent combustion 
efficiency. The owner or operator shall establish as an operating 
parameter the baseline temperature using the procedures described in 
Sec. 63.565(f). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the facility shall be operated with the block 
average temperature as determined in Sec. 63.564(e)(2) or (3) no more 
than 28 deg.C (50 deg.F) below the baseline temperature.
    (5) Flare. During the initial performance test required in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish 
that the flare used to comply with the emissions standards in 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) is in 
compliance with the design requirements for flares cited in 
Sec. 63.565(e). Following the date on which the initial determination 
of compliance is established, the facility shall operate with the 
presence of a pilot flame in the flare, as determined in 
Sec. 63.564(f).
    (6) Carbon adsorber. During the initial performance test required 
in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall 
determine the efficiency of and/or the outlet VOC concentration from 
the recovery device used to comply with Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), (4), 
and (5), (c)(3), (4), and (5), and (d)(2) using the test methods in 
Sec. 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph 
(b)(6)(i) as well as either paragraph (b)(6)(ii) or (iii) of this 
section. The owner or operator of affected sources complying with 
paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section shall conduct a 
performance test once each year.
    (i) Compliance determination for carbon bed regeneration. Desorbed 
hydrocarbons from regeneration of the off-line carbon bed shall be 
vented to the on-line carbon bed.
    (ii) Baseline parameters for required percent recovery efficiency. 
The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A), (B), 
or (C) of this section.
    (A) Outlet VOC concentration limit for required percent recovery 
efficiency. The owner or operator shall establish as an operating 
parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described 
in Sec. 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average 
outlet VOC concentration as determined in Sec. 63.564(g)(1) no more 
than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
    (B) Carbon adsorbers with vacuum regeneration. The owner or 
operator shall establish as operating parameters the baseline 
regeneration time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration using 
the procedures described in Sec. 63.565(h) and shall establish the 
baseline vacuum pressure (negative gauge pressure) using the procedures 
described in Sec. 63.565(i). Following the date on which the initial 
performance test is completed, the facility shall be operated with 
block average regeneration time of the vacuum 

[[Page 48410]]
stage of carbon bed regeneration as determined in Sec. 63.564(g)(2) no 
more than 20 percent below the baseline regeneration time, and the 
facility shall be operated with the block average vacuum pressure 
(negative gauge pressure) as determined in Sec. 63.564(g)(2) no more 
than 20 percent above the baseline vacuum pressure.
    (C) Carbon adsorbers with steam regeneration. The owner or operator 
shall establish as operating parameters the baseline total stream flow 
using the procedures described in Sec. 63.565(j) and a baseline carbon 
bed temperature after cooling of the bed using the procedures in 
Sec. 63.565(f)(2). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the facility shall be operated with the total stream 
flow, as determined in Sec. 63.564(g)(3), no more than 20 percent below 
the baseline stream flow and with the carbon bed temperature (measured 
within 15 minutes after completion of the cooling cycle), as determined 
in Sec. 63.564(g)(3), no more than 10 percent or 5.6 deg.C (10 deg.F) 
above the baseline carbon bed temperature, whichever is less stringent.
    (iii) Outlet VOC concentration of 1,000 ppmv for gasoline loading. 
Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, 
the facility shall operate with a block average outlet VOC 
concentration as determined in Sec. 63.564(g)(1) of no more than 1,200 
ppmv VOC.
    (7) Condenser/refrigeration unit. During the initial performance 
test required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or 
operator shall determine the efficiency of and/or the outlet VOC 
concentration from the recovery device used to comply with 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) using the 
test methods in Sec. 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with 
either paragraph (b)(7)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
    (i) VOC outlet concentration limit for required percent recovery 
efficiency. The owner or operator shall establish as an operating 
parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described 
in Sec. 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average 
outlet VOC concentration as determined in Sec. 63.564(h)(2) no more 
than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
    (ii) Baseline temperature for required percent recovery efficiency. 
The owner or operator shall establish as an operating parameter the 
baseline temperature using the procedures described in Sec. 63.565(f). 
Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed, 
the facility shall operate with a block average temperature, as 
determined in Sec. 63.564(h)(1), no more than 28 deg.C (50 deg.F) above 
the baseline temperature.
    (iii) Baseline parameters for 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration limit 
for gasoline loading. The owner or operator shall monitor either the 
outlet VOC concentration or the outlet temperature of the unit. For 
sources monitoring temperature, the owner or operator shall establish 
as an operating parameter the baseline temperature using the procedures 
described in Sec. 63.565(f). Following the date on which the initial 
performance test is completed, the facility shall operate with a block 
average outlet VOC concentration, as determined in Sec. 63.564(h)(2), 
of no more than 1,200 ppmv VOC or with a block average temperature, as 
determined in Sec. 63.564(h)(1), no more than 28 deg.C (50 deg.F) above 
the baseline temperature.
    (8) Absorber. During the initial performance test required in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine 
the efficiency of the absorber and/or the outlet VOC concentration from 
the recovery device used to comply with Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and 
(4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) using the test methods in 
Sec. 63.565(d). The owner or operator shall comply with either 
paragraph (b)(8)(i) or (ii) of this section.
    (i) VOC outlet concentration limit for required percent recovery 
efficiency. The owner or operator shall establish as an operating 
parameter the baseline VOC concentration using the procedures described 
in Sec. 63.565(g). Following the date on which the initial performance 
test is completed, the facility shall be operated with a block average 
outlet VOC concentration as determined in Sec. 63.564(i)(1) no more 
than 20 percent above the baseline VOC concentration.
    (ii) Baseline liquid-to-vapor ratio for required percent recovery 
efficiency. The owner or operator shall establish as an operating 
parameter the baseline liquid flow to vapor flow (L/V) ratio using the 
procedures described in Sec. 63.565(k). Following the date on which the 
initial performance test is completed, the facility shall operate with 
a block average L/V ratio, as determined in Sec. 63.564(i)(2), no more 
than 20 percent below the baseline L/V ratio.
    (9) Alternative control devices. For sources complying with 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2) with the 
use of a control technology other than the devices discussed in 
paragraphs (b)(4) through (8) of this section, the owner or operator of 
an affected source shall provide to the Administrator information 
describing the design and operation of the air pollution control 
system, including recommendations for the operating parameter(s) to be 
monitored to indicate proper operation and maintenance of the air 
pollution control system. Based on this information, the Administrator 
shall determine the operating parameter(s) to be established during the 
performance test. During the initial performance test required in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine 
the efficiency of the air pollution control system using the test 
methods in Sec. 63.565(d). The device shall achieve at least the 
percent destruction efficiency or recovery efficiency required under 
Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2). The owner 
or operator shall establish the operating parameter(s) approved by the 
Administrator. Following the date on which the initial performance test 
is complete, the facility shall operate either above or below a maximum 
or minimum operating parameter, as appropriate.
    (10) Emission estimation. The owner or operator of a source subject 
to Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) shall use the emission estimation 
procedures in Sec. 63.565(l) to calculate HAP emissions.
    (c) Leak detection and repair for vapor collection systems and 
control devices. The following procedures are required for all sources 
subject to Sec. 63.562(b), (c), or (d).
    (1) Annual leak detection and repair for vapor collection systems 
and control devices. The owner or operator of an affected source shall 
inspect and monitor all ductwork and piping and connections to vapor 
collection systems and control devices once each calendar year using 
Method 21.
    (2) Ongoing leak detection and repair for vapor collection systems 
and control devices. If evidence of a potential leak is found by 
visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method, all ductwork 
and piping and connections to vapor collection systems and control 
devices shall be inspected to the extent necessary to positively 
identify the potential leak and any potential leaks shall be monitored 
within 5 days by Method 21. Each detection of a leak shall be recorded, 
and the leak shall be tagged until repaired.
    (3) When a leak is detected, a first effort to repair the vapor 
collection system and control device shall be made within 15 days or 
prior to the next marine tank vessel loading operation, whichever is 
later.


Sec. 63.564  Monitoring requirements.

    (a) (1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply 
with the 

[[Page 48411]]
monitoring requirements in Sec. 63.8 of subpart A of this part in 
accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this 
subpart in Table 1 of Sec. 63.560 and the monitoring requirements in 
this section.
    (2) Each owner or operator of an affected source shall monitor the 
parameters specified in this section. All monitoring equipment shall be 
installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process 
parameters from the source are obtained. For monitoring equipment 
purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the 
monitoring equipment shall include completion of the manufacturer's 
written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, 
and calibration of the system.
    (3) Except for system breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, 
maintenance periods, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-
level calibration drift adjustments, all continuous parametric 
monitoring systems (CPMS) and CEMS shall be in continuous operation 
while marine tank vessel loading operations are occuring and shall meet 
minimum frequency of operation requirements. Sources monitoring by use 
of CEMS and CPMS shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation 
(sampling, analyzing, and/or data recording) for each successive 15-
minute period.
    (4) The owner or operator of a CMS installed in accordance with 
these emissions standards shall comply with the performance 
specifications either in performance specification (PS) 8 in 40 CFR 
part 60, appendix B for CEMS or in Sec. 63.7(c)(6) of subpart A of this 
part for CPMS.
    (5) A CEMS is out of control when the measured values (i.e., daily 
calibrations, multipoint calibrations, and performance audits) exceed 
the limits specified in either PS 8 or in Sec. 63.8(c)(7) of subpart A 
of this part. The owner or operator of a CEMS that is out of control 
shall submit all information concerning out of control periods, 
including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective 
actions taken, in the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system 
performance report required in Sec. 63.567(e).
    (b) Vapor collection system of terminal. Owners or operators of a 
source complying with Sec. 63.563(a)(1) that uses a vapor collection 
system that contains valves that could divert a vent stream from a 
control device used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall 
comply with paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
    (1) Measure and record the vent stream flowrate of each by-pass 
line once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall install, 
calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator and data recorder. 
The flow indicator shall be installed immediately downstream of any 
valve (i.e., entrance to by-pass line) that could divert the vent 
stream from the control device to the atmosphere.
    (2) Measure the vent stream flowrate of each by-pass line once 
every 15 minutes. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, 
maintain, and operate a flow indicator with either an audio or visual 
alarm. The flow indicator and alarm shall be installed immediately 
downstream of any valve (i.e., entrance to by-pass line) that could 
divert the vent stream from the control device to the atmosphere. The 
alarm shall be checked every 6 months to demonstrate that it is 
functioning properly.
    (3) Visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism once during each 
marine tank vessel loading operation and at least once every month to 
ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and that the 
vent stream is not diverted through the by-pass line; record all times 
when the car seals have been broken and the valve position has been 
changed. Each by-pass line valve shall be secured in the closed 
position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
    (c) Pressure/vacuum settings for the marine tank vessel's vapor 
collection equipment. Owners or operators of a source complying with 
Sec. 63.563(a)(3) shall measure continuously the operating pressure of 
the marine tank vessel during loading.
    (d) Loading at negative pressure. Owners or operators of a source 
complying with Sec. 63.563(a)(4)(iv) that load vessels at less than 
atmospheric pressure (i.e., negative gauge pressure) shall measure and 
record the loading pressure. The owner or operator shall install, 
calibrate, maintain, and operate a recording pressure measurement 
device (magnehelic gauge or equivalent device) and an audible and 
visible alarm system that is activated when the pressure vacuum 
specified in Sec. 63.563(a)(4)(iv) is not attained. The owner or 
operator shall place the alarm system so that it can be seen and heard 
where cargo transfer is controlled. The owner or operator shall verify 
the accuracy of the pressure device once each calendar year with a 
reference pressure monitor (traceable to National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent pressure 
measurement device dedicated for this purpose).
    (e) Combustion device, except flare. For sources complying with 
Sec. 63.563(b)(4), use of a combustion device except a flare, the owner 
or operator shall comply with paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this 
section. Owners or operators complying with paragraphs (e)(2) or (3) 
shall also comply with paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
    (1) Outlet VOC concentration. Monitor the VOC concentrations at the 
exhaust point of the combustion device and record the output from the 
system. For sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established 
during the performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a 
concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average 
concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance 
test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third cycle. For 
sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for gasoline 
loading, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 
15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each 
hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every third hour. The 
owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS 
consistent with the requirements of PS 8 to measure the VOC 
concentration. The daily calibration requirements are required only on 
days when marine tank vessel loading operations occur.
    (2) Operating temperature determined during performance testing. If 
the baseline temperature was established during the performance test, 
the data acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 
minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature each cycle 
(same time period or cycle of the performance test) and a 3-cycle block 
average every third cycle.
    (3) Manufacturer's recommended operating temperature. If the 
baseline temperature is based on the manufacturer recommended operating 
temperature, the data acquisition system shall record the temperature 
every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average temperature 
each hour and a 3-hour block average every third hour.
    (4) Temperature monitor. The owner or operator shall install, 
calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor accurate to 
within <plus-minus>5.6 deg.C (<plus-minus>10 deg.F) or within 1 percent 
of the baseline temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure 
the temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of 
the combustion device but not within the combustion zone. The owner or 
operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor once each 
calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to 
National Institute of Standards and 

[[Page 48412]]
Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement 
device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe 
of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the 
temperature monitor being tested.
    (f) Flare. For sources complying with Sec. 63.563(b)(5), use of a 
flare, the owner or operator shall monitor and record continuously the 
presence of the flare pilot flame. The owner or operator shall install, 
calibrate, maintain, and operate a heat sensing device (an ultraviolet 
beam sensor or thermocouple) at the pilot light to indicate the 
presence of a flame during the entire loading cycle.
    (g) Carbon adsorber. For sources complying with Sec. 63.563(b)(6), 
use of a carbon adsorber, the owner or operator shall comply with 
paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
    (1) Outlet VOC concentration. Monitor the VOC concentrations at the 
exhaust point of each carbon adsorber unit and record the output from 
the system. For sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration 
established during the performance test, a data acquisition system 
shall record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and 
record an average concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle 
as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration 
every third cycle. For sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC 
concentration for gasoline loading, a data acquisition system shall 
record a concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an 
average concentration each hour and a 3-hour block average 
concentration every third hour. The owner or operator will install, 
calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS consistent with the 
requirements of PS 8 to measure the VOC concentration. The daily 
calibration requirements are required only on days when marine tank 
vessel loading operations occur.
    (2) Carbon adsorbers with vacuum regeneration. Monitor and record 
the regeneration time for carbon bed regeneration and monitor and 
record continuously the vacuum pressure of the carbon bed regeneration 
cycle. The owner or operator will record the time when the carbon bed 
regeneration cycle begins and when the cycle ends for a single carbon 
bed and will calculate a 3-cycle block average every third cycle. The 
owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a 
recording pressure measurement device (magnehelic gauge or equivalent 
device). A data acquisition system shall record and compute a 3-cycle 
(carbon bed regeneration cycle) block average vacuum pressure every 
third cycle. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the 
pressure device once each calendar year with a reference pressure 
monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) standards or an independent pressure measurement device 
dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the 
reference device shall be at the same location as that of the pressure 
monitor being tested.
    (3) Carbon adsorbers with steam regeneration. Monitor and record 
the total stream mass flow and monitor and record the carbon bed 
temperature after regeneration (but within 15 minutes of completion of 
the cooling cycle). The owner or operator will install, calibrate, 
maintain, and operate an integrating stream flow monitoring device that 
is accurate within <plus-minus>10 percent and that is capable of 
recording the total stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle. The 
owner or operator will install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a 
temperature monitor accurate to within <plus-minus>5.6 deg.C (10 deg.F) 
or within 1 percent of the baseline carbon bed temperature, whichever 
is less stringent, to measure the carbon bed temperature. The monitor 
shall be installed at the exhaust point of the carbon bed. The data 
acquisition system shall record the carbon bed temperature after each 
cooling cycle (measured within 15 minutes of completion of the cooling 
cycle). The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the 
temperature monitor once each calendar year with a reference 
temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement 
device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe 
of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the 
temperature monitor being tested.
    (h) Condenser/refrigeration unit. For sources complying with 
Sec. 63.563(b)(7), use of a condenser/refrigeration unit, the owner or 
operator shall comply with either paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this 
section.
    (1) Baseline temperature. Monitor and record the temperature at the 
outlet of the unit. The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, 
operate, and maintain a temperature monitor accurate to within 
<plus-minus>5.6 deg.C (<plus-minus>10 deg.F) or within 1 percent of the 
baseline temperature, whichever is less stringent, to measure the 
temperature. The monitor shall be installed at the exhaust point of the 
condenser/refrigeration unit. For sources monitoring the temperature 
established during the performance test, the data acquisition system 
shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and shall compute and 
record an average temperature each cycle (same time period or cycle of 
the performance test) and a 3-hour block average every third cycle. For 
sources monitoring the manufacturer recommended temperature, the data 
acquisition system shall record the temperature every 15 minutes and 
shall compute and record an average temperature each hour and a 3-hour 
block average every third hour. The owner or operator shall verify the 
accuracy of the temperature monitor once each calendar year with a 
reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature 
measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy 
checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same 
location as that of the temperature monitor being tested.
    (2) Outlet VOC concentration. Monitor the VOC concentrations at the 
outlet of the unit and record the output from the system. For sources 
monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established during the 
performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a 
concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average 
concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle as the performance 
test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third cycle. For 
sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for gasoline 
loading, a data acquisition system shall record a concentration every 
15 minutes and shall compute and record an average concentration each 
hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every third hour. The 
owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a VOC 
CEMS consistent with the requirements of PS 8 to measure the VOC 
concentration. The daily calibration requirements are required only on 
days when marine tank vessel loading operations occur.
    (i) Absorber. For sources complying with Sec. 63.563(b)(8), use of 
an absorber, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph 
(i)(1) or (2) of this section.
    (1) Outlet VOC concentration. Monitor the VOC concentrations at the 
outlet of the absorber and record the output from the system. For 
sources monitoring the outlet VOC concentration established during the 
performance test, a data acquisition system shall record a 
concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average 
concentration each cycle (same time period or cycle as the 

[[Page 48413]]
performance test) and a 3-cycle block average concentration every third 
cycle. For sources monitoring the 1,000 ppmv VOC concentration for 
gasoline loading, a data acquisition system shall record a 
concentration every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an average 
concentration each hour and a 3-hour block average concentration every 
third hour. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and 
maintain a VOC CEMS consistent with the requirements of PS 8. The daily 
calibration requirements are required only on days when marine tank 
vessel loading operations occur.
    (2) L/V ratio. Monitor and record the inlet liquid flowrate and the 
inlet gas flowrate to the absorber and record the calculated L/V ratio. 
The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate 
liquid and gas flow indicators. For sources monitoring the L/V ratio 
established during the performance test, a data acquisition system 
shall record the flowrates and calculated ratio every 15 minutes and 
shall compute and record an average ratio each cycle (same time period 
or cycle as the performance test) and a 3-cycle block average ratio 
every third cycle. For sources monitoring the manufacturer recommended 
L/V ratio, a data acquisition system shall record the flowrates and 
calculated ratio every 15 minutes and shall compute and record an 
average ratio each hour and a 3-hour average ratio every third hour. 
The liquid and gas flow indicators shall be installed immediately 
upstream of the respective inlet lines to the absorber.
    (j) Alternate monitoring procedures. Alternate procedures to those 
described in this section may be used upon application to, and approval 
by, the Administrator. The owner or operator shall comply with the 
procedures for use of an alternative monitoring method in Sec. 63.8(f).


Sec. 63.565  Test methods and procedures.

    (a) Performance testing. The owner or operator of an affected 
source in Sec. 63.562 shall comply with the performance testing 
requirements in Sec. 63.7 of subpart A of this part in accordance with 
the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 
1 of Sec. 63.560 and the performance testing requirements in this 
section.
    (b) Pressure/vacuum settings of marine tank vessel's vapor 
collection equipment. For the purpose of determining compliance with 
Sec. 63.563(a)(3), the following procedures shall be used:
    (1) Calibrate and install a pressure measurement device (liquid 
manometer, magnehelic gauge, or equivalent instrument) capable of 
measuring up to the maximum relief set pressure of the pressure-vacuum 
vents;
    (2) Connect the pressure measurement device to a pressure tap in 
the terminal's vapor collection system, located as close as possible to 
the connection with the marine tank vessel; and
    (3) During the performance test required in Sec. 63.563(b)(1), 
record the pressure every 5 minutes while a marine tank vessel is being 
loaded and record the highest instantaneous pressure and vacuum that 
occurs during each loading cycle.
    (c) Vapor-tightness test procedures for the marine tank vessel. 
When testing a vessel for vapor tightness to comply with the marine 
vessel vapor-tightness requirements of Sec. 63.563(a)(4)(i), the owner 
or operator of a source shall use the methods in either paragraph 
(c)(1) or (2) in this section.
    (1) Pressure test for the marine tank vessel.
    (i) Each product tank shall be pressurized with dry air or inert 
gas to no more than the pressure of the lowest pressure relief valve 
setting.
    (ii) Once the pressure is obtained, the dry air or inert gas source 
shall be shut off.
    (iii) At the end of one-half hour, the pressure in the product tank 
and piping shall be measured. The change in pressure shall be 
calculated using the following formula:

P=P<INF>i-P<INF>f

Where:

P=change in pressure, inches of water.
P<INF>i=pressure in tank when air/gas source is shut off, inches of 
water.
P<INF>f=pressure in tank at the end of one-half hour after air/gas 
source is shut off, inches of water.

    (iv) The change in pressure, P, shall be compared to the pressure 
drop calculated using the following formula:

PM=0.861 P<INF>ia L/V

Where:

PM=maximum allowable pressure change, inches of water.
P<INF>ia=pressure in tank when air/gas source is shut off, psia.
L=maximum permitted loading rate of vessel, barrels per hour.
V=total volume of product tank, barrels.

    (v) If P<ls-thn-eq>PM, the vessel is vapor tight.
    (vi) If P>PM, the vessel is not vapor tight and the source of the 
leak must be identified and repaired prior to retesting.
    (2) Leak test for the marine tank vessel. Each owner or operator of 
a source complying with Secs. 63.563(a)(4)(ii) or (iii) shall use 
Method 21 as the vapor-tightness leak test for marine tank vessels. The 
test shall be conducted during the final 20 percent of loading of each 
product tank of the marine vessel, and it shall be applied to any 
potential sources of vapor leaks on the vessel.
    (d) Combustion (except flare) and recovery control device 
performance test procedures.
    (1) All testing equipment shall be prepared and installed as 
specified in the appropriate test methods.
    (2) All testing shall be performed during the last 20 percent of 
loading of a tank or compartment.
    (3) All emission testing intervals shall consist of each 5 minute 
period during the performance test. For each interval, the following 
shall be performed:
    (i) Readings. The reading from each measurement instrument shall be 
recorded.
    (ii) Sampling Sites. Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 of 
this chapter, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of sampling 
sites. Sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the 
combustion device or recovery device except for owners or operators 
complying with the 1,000 ppmv VOC emissions limit for gasoline vapors 
under Sec. 63.563(b)(6) or (7), where the sampling site shall be 
located at the outlet of the recovery device.
    (iii) Volume exhausted. The volume exhausted shall be determined 
using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter, 
as appropriate.
    (4) Combustion devices, except flares. The average VOC 
concentration in the vent upstream and downstream of the control device 
shall be determined using Method 25 of appendix A of part 60 of this 
chapter for combustion devices, except flares. The average VOC 
concentration shall correspond to the volume measurement by taking into 
account the sampling system response time.
    (5) Recovery devices. The average VOC concentration in the vent 
upstream and downstream of the control device shall be determined using 
Method 25A of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter for recovery 
devices. The average VOC concentration shall correspond to the volume 
measurement by taking into account the sampling system response time.
    (6) The VOC mass at the inlet and outlet of the combustion or 
recovery device during each testing interval shall be calculated as 
follows:

M<INF>j=FKV<INF>sC<INF>VOC 

Where:

M<INF>j=mass of VOC at the inlet and outlet of the combustion or 
recovery 

[[Page 48414]]
device during testing interval j, kilograms (kg).
F=10<SUP>-6=conversion factor, (cubic meters VOC/cubic meters air)(1/
ppmv) (m<SUP>3 VOC/m<SUP>3 air)(1/ppmv).
K=density, kilograms per cubic meter (kg/m<SUP>3 VOC), standard 
conditions, 20  deg.C and 760 mm Hg.
V<INF>s=volume of air-vapor mixture at the inlet and outlet of the 
combustion or recovery device, cubic meters (m<SUP>3) at standard 
conditions, 20  deg.C and 760 mm Hg.
C<INF>VOC=VOC concentration (as measured) at the inlet and outlet of 
the combustion or recovery device, ppmv, dry basis.
s=standard conditions, 20  deg.C and 760 mm Hg.

    (7) The VOC mass emission rates at the inlet and outlet of the 
recovery or combustion device shall be calculated as follows:
[GRAPHIC][TIFF OMITTED]TR19SE95.001

Where:

E<INF>i, E<INF>o=mass flow rate of VOC at the inlet (i) and outlet (o) 
of the recovery or combustion device, kilogram per hour (kg/hr).
M<INF>ij, M<INF>oj=mass of VOC at the inlet (i) or outlet (o) during 
testing interval j, kg.
T=Total time of all testing intervals, hour.
n=number of testing intervals.

    (8) Where Method 25 or 25A is used to measure the percent reduction 
in VOC, the percent reduction across the combustion or recovery device 
shall be calculated as follows:
[GRAPHIC][TIFF OMITTED]TR19SE95.002

Where:

R=control efficiency of control device, percent.
E<INF>i=mass flow rate of VOC at the inlet to the combustion or 
recovery device as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section, 
kg/hr.
E<INF>o=mass flow rate of VOC at the outlet of the combustion or 
recovery device, as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section, 
kg/hr.

    (9) Repeat the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) through (d)(8) of 
this section 3 times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the 
three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control 
device.
    (10) Use of methods other than Method 25 or Method 25A shall be 
validated pursuant to Method 301 of appendix A of part 63 of this 
chapter.
    (e) Performance test for flares. When a flare is used to comply 
with Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), (c)(3) and (4), and (d)(2), the 
source must demonstrate that the flare meets the requirements of 
Sec. 63.11 of subpart A of this part. In addition, a performance test 
according to Method 22 of appendix A of part 63 shall be performed to 
determine visible emissions. The observation period shall be at least 2 
hours and shall be conducted according to Method 22. Performance 
testing shall be conducted during three complete loading cycles with a 
separate test run for each loading cycle. The observation period for 
detecting visible emissions shall encompass each loading cycle. 
Integrated sampling to measure process vent stream flow rate shall be 
performed continuously during each loading cycle. The owner or operator 
shall record all visible emission readings, heat content 
determinations, flow rate measurements, maximum permitted velocity 
calculations, and exit velocity determinations made during the 
performance test.
    (f) Baseline temperature. The procedures in this paragraph shall be 
used to determine the baseline temperature required in 
Sec. 63.563(b)(4), (6), and (7) for combustion devices, carbon adsorber 
beds, and condenser/refrigeration units, respectively, and to monitor 
the temperature as required in Sec. 63.564(e), (g), and (h). The owner 
or operator shall comply with either paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this 
section.
    (1) Baseline temperature from performance testing. The owner or 
operator shall establish the baseline temperature as the temperature at 
the outlet point of the unit averaged over three test runs from 
paragraph (d) of this section. Temperature shall be measured every 15 
minutes.
    (2) Baseline temperature from manufacturer. The owner or operator 
shall establish the baseline temperature as the manufacturer 
recommended minimum operating temperature for combustion devices, 
maximum operating temperature for condenser units, and maximum 
operating temperature for carbon beds of carbon adsorbers.
    (g) Baseline outlet VOC concentration. The procedures in this 
paragraph shall be used to determine the outlet VOC concentration 
required in Sec. 63.563(b)(4), (6), (7), and (8) for combustion devices 
except flare, carbon adsorbers, condenser/refrigeration units, and 
absorbers, respectively, and to monitor the VOC concentration as 
required in Sec. 63.564(e), (g), (h), and (i). The owner or operator 
shall use the procedures outlined in Method 25A. For the baseline VOC 
concentration, the arithmetic average of the outlet VOC concentration 
from three test runs from paragraph (d) of this section shall be 
calculated for the control device. The VOC concentration shall be 
measured at least every 15 minutes. Compliance testing of VOC CEMS 
shall be performed using PS 8.
    (h) Baseline regeneration time for carbon bed regeneration. The 
procedures in this paragraph shall be used to demonstrate the baseline 
regeneration time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration 
required in Sec. 63.563(b)(6) for a carbon adsorber and to monitor the 
regeneration time for the vacuum regeneration as required in 
Sec. 63.564(g). The owner or operator shall comply with paragraph 
(h)(1) or (2).
    (1) Baseline regeneration time from performance testing. The owner 
or operator shall establish the baseline regeneration time as the 
length of time for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration averaged 
over three test runs from paragraph (d) of this section.
    (2) Baseline regeneration time from manufacturer recommendation. 
The owner or operator shall establish the baseline regeneration time as 
the manufacturer recommended minimum regeneration time for the vacuum 
stage of carbon bed regeneration.
    (i) Baseline vacuum pressure for carbon bed regeneration. The 
procedures in this paragraph shall be used to demonstrate the baseline 
vacuum pressure for the vacuum stage of carbon bed regeneration 
required in Sec. 63.563(b)(6) for a carbon adsorber and to monitor the 
vacuum pressure as required in Sec. 63.564(g). The owner or operator 
shall establish the baseline vacuum pressure as the manufacturer 
recommended minimum vacuum for carbon bed regeneration.
    (j) Baseline total stream flow. The procedures in this paragraph 
shall be used to demonstrate the baseline total stream flow for steam 
regeneration required in Sec. 63.563(b)(6) for a carbon adsorber and to 
monitor the total stream flow as required in Sec. 63.564(g). The owner 
or operator shall establish the baseline stream flow as the 
manufacturer recommended minimum total stream flow for carbon bed 
regeneration.
    (k) Baseline L/V ratio. The procedures in this paragraph shall be 
used to 

[[Page 48415]]
determine the baseline L/V ratio required in Sec. 63.563(b)(8) for an 
absorber and to monitor the L/V ratio as required in Sec. 63.564(i). 
The owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (k)(1) or (2) 
of this section.
    (1) Baseline L/V ratio from performance test. The owner or operator 
shall establish the baseline L/V ratio as the calculated value of the 
inlet liquid flow divided by the inlet gas flow to the absorber 
averaged over three test runs using the procedures in paragraph (d) of 
this section.
    (2) Baseline L/V ratio from manufacturer. The owner or operator 
shall establish the baseline L/V ratio as the manufacturer recommended 
minimum L/V ratio for absorber operation.
    (l) Emission estimation procedures. For sources with emissions less 
than 10 or 25 tons and sources with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, the 
owner or operator shall calculate an annual estimate of HAP emissions, 
excluding commodities exempted by Sec. 63.560(d), from marine tank 
vessel loading operations. Emission estimates and emission factors 
shall be based on test data, or if test data is not available, shall be 
based on measurement or estimating techniques generally accepted in 
industry practice for operating conditions at the source.
    (m) Alternate test procedures.
    (1) Alternate test procedures to those described in this section 
may be used upon application to, and approval by, the Administrator.
    (2) If the owner or operator intends to demonstrate compliance by 
using an alternative to any test method specified, the owner or 
operator shall refrain from conducting the performance test until the 
Administrator approves the use of the alternative method when the 
Administrator approves the site-specific test plan (if review of the 
site-specific test plan is requested) or until after the alternative 
method is approved (see Sec. 63.7(f) of subpart A of this part). If the 
Administrator does not approve the site-specific test plan (if review 
is requested) or the use of the alternative method within 30 days 
before the test is scheduled to begin, the performance test dates 
specified in Sec. 63.563(b)(1) shall be extended such that the owner or 
operator shall conduct the performance test within 60 calendar days 
after the Administrator approves the site-specific test plan or after 
use of the alternative method is approved. Notwithstanding the 
requirements in the preceding two sentences, the owner or operator may 
proceed to conduct the performance test as required in this section 
(without the Administrator's prior approval of the site-specific test 
plan) if he/she subsequently chooses to use the specified testing and 
monitoring methods instead of an alternative.


Sec. 63.566  Construction and reconstruction.

    (a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all 
requirements for construction or reconstruction of a source in 
Sec. 63.5 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions 
for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of 
Sec. 63.560 and construction or reconstruction requirements in this 
section.
    (b) (1) Application for approval of construction or reconstruction. 
The provisions of this paragraph and Sec. 63.5(d)(1)(ii) and (iii), 
(2), (3), and (4) of subpart A implement section 112(i)(1) of the Act.
    (2) General application requirements. An owner or operator who is 
subject to the requirements of Sec. 63.5(b)(3) of subpart A shall 
submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the 
construction of a new source, the reconstruction of a source, or the 
reconstruction of a source not subject to the emissions standards in 
Sec. 63.562 such that the source becomes an affected source. The 
application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the 
construction or reconstruction is planned to commence. The application 
for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill 
the initial notification requirements of Sec. 63.567(b)(3). The owner 
or operator may submit the application for approval well in advance of 
the date construction or reconstruction is planned to commence in order 
to ensure a timely review by the Administrator and that the planned 
commencement date will not be delayed.
    (c) Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State 
preconstruction review. The owner or operator shall submit to the 
Administrator the request for approval of construction or 
reconstruction under this paragraph and Sec. 63.5(f)(1) of subpart A of 
this part no later than the application deadline specified in paragraph 
(b)(2) of this section. The owner or operator shall include in the 
request information sufficient for the Administrator's determination. 
The Administrator will evaluate the owner or operator's request in 
accordance with the procedures specified in Sec. 63.5(e) of subpart A 
of this part. The Administrator may request additional relevant 
information after the submittal of a request for approval of 
construction or reconstruction.


Sec. 63.567  Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

    (a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all 
reporting and recordkeeping requirements in Secs. 63.9 and 63.10 of 
subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for 
applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of Sec. 63.560 
and fulfill all reporting and recordkeeping requirements in this 
section. These reports will be made to the Administrator at the 
appropriate address identified in Sec. 63.13 of subpart A of this part.
    (1) Reports required by subpart A and this section may be sent by 
U.S. mail, facsimile (fax), or by another courier.
    (i) Submittals sent by U.S. mail shall be postmarked on or before 
the specified date.
    (ii) Submittals sent by other methods shall be received by the 
Administrator on or before the specified date.
    (2) If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or 
operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.
    (b) Notification requirements. The owner or operator of an affected 
source shall fulfill all notification requirements in Sec. 63.9 of 
subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for 
applicability of that section to this subpart in Table 1 of Sec. 63.560 
and the notification requirements in this paragraph.
    (1) Applicability. If a source that otherwise would not be subject 
to the emissions standards subsequently increases its HAP emissions 
calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 
or increases its annual HAP emissions after September 20, 1999 or 
subsequently increases its gasoline or crude loading throughput 
calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996 
or increases its gasoline or crude loading annual throughput after 
September 21, 1998 such that the source becomes subject to the 
emissions standards, such source shall be subject to the notification 
requirements of Sec. 63.9 of subpart A of this part and the 
notification requirements of this paragraph.
    (2) Initial notification for sources with startup before the 
effective date. The owner or operator of a source with initial startup 
before the effective date shall notify the Administrator in writing 
that the source is subject to the relevant standard. The notification 
shall be submitted not later than 365 days after the effective date of 
the emissions standards and shall provide the following information: 

[[Page 48416]]

    (i) The name and address of the owner or operator;
    (ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the source;
    (iii) An identification of this emissions standard that is the 
basis of the notification and the source's compliance date;
    (iv) A brief description of the nature, size, design, and method of 
operation of the source;
    (v) A statement that the source is a major source.
    (3) Initial notification for sources with startup after the 
effective date. The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source 
or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is subject to the 
emissions standards that has an initial startup after the effective 
date but before the compliance date, and for which an application for 
approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under 
Sec. 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part and Sec. 63.566 of this subpart, 
shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to 
the standard no later than 365 days or 120 days after initial startup, 
whichever occurs before notification of the initial performance test in 
Sec. 63.9(e) of subpart A of this part. The notification shall provide 
all the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, 
delivered or postmarked with the notification required in paragraph 
(b)(4) of this section.
    (4) Initial notification requirements for constructed/reconstructed 
sources. After the effective date of these standards, whether or not an 
approved permit program is effective in the State in which a source 
subject to these standards is (or would be) located, an owner or 
operator subject to the notification requirements of Sec. 63.5 of 
subpart A of this part and Sec. 63.566 of this subpart who intends to 
construct a new source subject to these standards, reconstruct a source 
subject to these standards, or reconstruct a source such that it 
becomes subject to these standards, shall comply with paragraphs 
(b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.
    (i) Notify the Administrator in writing of the intended 
construction or reconstruction. The notification shall be submitted as 
soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is 
planned to commence. The notification shall include all the information 
required for an application for approval of construction or 
reconstruction as specified in Sec. 63.5 of subpart A of this part. The 
application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used 
to fulfill the requirements of this paragraph.
    (ii) Submit a notification of the date when construction or 
reconstruction was commenced, delivered or postmarked not later than 30 
days after such date, if construction was commenced after the effective 
date.
    (iii) Submit a notification of the anticipated date of startup of 
the source, delivered or postmarked not more than 60 days nor less than 
30 days before such date;
    (iv) Submit a notification of the actual date of startup of the 
source, delivered or postmarked within 15 calendar days after that 
date.
    (5) Additional initial notification requirements. The owner or 
operator of sources subject to Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4), MACT 
standards, shall also include in the initial notification report 
required by paragraph (b)(2) and (3) the 24-month annual average or the 
annual actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations, 
as appropriate, at all loading berths, as calculated according to the 
procedures in Sec. 63.565(l). Emissions will be reported by commodity 
and type of marine tank vessel (barge or tanker) loaded.
    (ii) As an alternative to reporting the information in paragraph 
(b)(5)(i) of this section, the source may submit documentation showing 
that all HAP-containing marine tank vessel loading operations, not 
exempt by Sec. 63.560(d), occurred using vapor tight vessels that 
comply with the procedures of Sec. 63.563(a) and that the emissions 
were routed to control devices meeting the requirements specified in 
Sec. 63.563(b).
    (c) Request for extension of compliance. If the owner or operator 
has installed BACT or technology to meet LAER consistent with 
Sec. 63.6(i)(5) of subpart A of this part, he/she may submit to the 
Administrator (or State with an approved permit program) a request for 
an extension of compliance as specified in Sec. 63.6(i)(4)(i)(B), 
(i)(5), and (i)(6) of subpart A of this part.
    (d) Reporting for performance testing of flares. The owner or 
operator of a source required to conduct an opacity performance test 
shall report the opacity results and other information required by 
Sec. 63.565(e) and Sec. 63.11 of subpart A of this part with the 
notification of compliance status.
    (e) Summary reports and excess emissions and monitoring system 
performance reports.
    (1) Schedule for summary report and excess emissions and monitoring 
system performance reports. Excess emissions and parameter monitoring 
exceedances are defined in Sec. 63.563(b). The owner or operator of a 
source subject to these emissions standards that is required to install 
a CMS shall submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system 
performance report and/or a summary report to the Administrator once 
each year, except, when the source experiences excess emissions, the 
source shall comply with a semi-annual reporting format until a request 
to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (e)(2) of this section is 
approved.
    (2) Request to reduce frequency of excess emissions and continuous 
monitoring system performance reports. An owner or operator who is 
required to submit excess emissions and continuous monitoring system 
performance and summary reports on a semi-annual basis may reduce the 
frequency of reporting to annual if the following conditions are met:
    (i) For 1 full year the sources's excess emissions and continuous 
monitoring system performance reports continually demonstrate that the 
source is in compliance; and
    (ii) The owner or operator continues to comply with all 
recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified in this subpart and 
subpart A of this part.
    (3) The frequency of reporting of excess emissions and continuous 
monitoring system performance and summary reports required may be 
reduced only after the owner or operator notifies the Administrator in 
writing of his or her intention to make such a change and the 
Administrator does not object to the intended change. In deciding 
whether to approve a reduced frequency of reporting, the Administrator 
may review information concerning the source's entire previous 
performance history during the 5-year recordkeeping prior to the 
intended change, including performance test results, monitoring data, 
and evaluations of an owner or operator's conformance with operation 
maintenance requirements. Such information may be used by the 
Administrator to make a judgement about the source's potential for 
noncompliance in the future. If the Administrator will notify the owner 
or operator in writing within 45 days after receiving notice of the 
owner or operator's intention. The notification from the Administrator 
to the owner or operator will specify the grounds on which the 
disapproval is based. In the absence of a notice of disapproval within 
45 days, approval is automatically granted.
    (4) Content and submittal dates for excess emissions and monitoring 
system performance reports. All excess emissions and monitoring system 
performance reports and all summary reports, if required per paragraph 
(e)(5) and (6) of this section, shall be delivered or postmarked within 
30 days following 

[[Page 48417]]
the end of each calendar year, or within 30 days following the end of 
each six month period, if appropriate. Written reports of excess 
emissions or exceedances of process or control system parameters shall 
include all information required in Sec. 63.10(c)(5) through (13) of 
subpart A of this part as applicable in Table 1 of Sec. 63.560 and 
information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring 
equipment is not in compliance with PS 8 or other methods used for 
accuracy testing of temperature, pressure, or flow monitoring devices. 
The written report shall also include the name, title, and signature of 
the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. 
When no excess emissions or exceedances have occurred or monitoring 
equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such 
information shall be stated in the report. This information will be 
kept for a minimum of 5 years and made readily available to the 
Administrator or delegated State authority upon request.
    (5) If the total duration of excess emissions or control system 
parameter exceedances for the reporting period is less than 5 percent 
of the total operating time for the reporting period, and CMS downtime 
for the reporting period is less than 10 percent of the total operating 
time for the reporting period, only the summary report of 
Sec. 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted, and 
the full excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance 
report of paragraph (e)(4) of this section need not be submitted unless 
required by the Administrator.
    (6) If the total duration of excess emissions or process or control 
system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is 5 percent or 
greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the 
total CMS downtime for the reporting period is 10 percent or greater of 
the total operating time for the reporting period, both the summary 
report of Sec. 63.10(e)(3)(vi) of subpart A of this part and the excess 
emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report of 
paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be submitted.
    (f) Vapor collection system of the terminal. Each owner or operator 
of an affected source shall submit with the initial performance test 
and maintain in an accessible location on site an engineering report 
describing in detail the vent system, or vapor collection system, used 
to vent each vent stream to a control device. This report shall include 
all valves and vent pipes that could vent the stream to the atmosphere, 
thereby bypassing the control device, and identify which valves are 
car-sealed opened and which valves are car-sealed closed.
    (g) If a vent system, or vapor collection system, containing valves 
that could divert the emission stream away from the control device is 
used, each owner or operator of an affected source shall keep for at 
least 5 years up-to-date, readily accessible continuous records of:
    (1) All periods when flow bypassing the control device is indicated 
if flow indicators are installed under Sec. 63.563(a)(1) and 
Sec. 63.564(b), and
    (2) All times when maintenance is performed on car-sealed valves, 
when the car-seal is broken, and when the valve position is changed 
(i.e., from open to closed for valves in the vent piping to the control 
device and from closed to open for valves that vent the stream directly 
or indirectly to the atmosphere bypassing the control device) if valves 
are monitored under Sec. 63.564(b).
    (h) The owner or operator of an affected source shall keep the 
vapor-tightness documentation required under Sec. 63.563(a)(4) on file 
at the source in a permanent form available for inspection.
    (i) Vapor tightness test documentation for marine tank vessels. The 
owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain a documentation 
file for each marine tank vessel loaded at that source to reflect 
current test results as determined by the appropriate method in 
Sec. 63.565(c)(1) and (2). Updates to this documentation file shall be 
made at least once per year. The owner or operator shall include, as a 
minimum, the following information in this documentation:
    (1) Test title;
    (2) Marine vessel owner and address;
    (3) Marine vessel identification number;
    (4) Loading time, according to Sec. 63.563(a)(4)(ii) or (iii), if 
appropriate;
    (5) Testing location;
    (6) Date of test;
    (7) Tester name and signature;
    (8) Test results from Sec. 63.565(c)(1) or (2), as appropriate;
    (9) Documentation provided under Sec. 63.563(a)(4)(ii) and (iii)(B) 
showing that the repair of leaking components attributed to a failure 
of a vapor-tightness test is technically infeasible without dry-docking 
the vessel; and
    (10) Documentation that a marine tank vessel failing a pressure 
test or leak test has been repaired.
    (j) Emission estimation reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The 
owner or operator of each source complying with the emission limits 
specified in Sec. 63.562(b)(2), (3), and (4) shall comply with the 
following provisions:
    (1) Maintain records of all measurements, calculations, and other 
documentation used to identify commodities exempted under 
Sec. 63.560(d);
    (2) Keep readily accessible records of the emission estimation 
calculations performed in Sec. 63.565(l) for 5 years; and
    (3) Submit an annual report of the source's HAP control efficiency 
calculated using the procedures specified in Sec. 63.565(l), based on 
the source's actual throughput.
    (4) Owners or operators of marine tank vessel loading operations 
specified in Sec. 63.560(a)(3) shall retain records of the emissions 
estimates determined in Sec. 65.565(l) and records of their actual 
throughputs by commodity, for 5 years.
    (k) Leak detection and repair of vapor collection systems and 
control devices. When each leak of the vapor collection system, or 
vapor collection system, and control device is detected and repaired as 
specified in Sec. 63.563(c) the following information required shall be 
maintained for 5 years:
    (1) Date of inspection;
    (2) Findings (location, nature, and severity of each leak);
    (3) Leak determination method;
    (4) Corrective action (date each leak repaired, reasons for repair 
interval); and
    (5) Inspector name and signature.

[FR Doc. 95-22725 Filed 9-18-95; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6560-50-P

</pre></body>
</html>